---
title: "National Assembly for Wales (Official Languages) Act 2012"
identifier: "anaw-2012-1"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-senedd-cymru"
publication_date: "2012-11-13"
last_updated: "2012-11-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-wls"
long_title: "National Assembly for Wales (Official Languages) Act 2012"
last_modified_tna: "2024-11-25"
type_code: "anaw"
year: "2012"
number: "1"
document_main_type: "WelshNationalAssemblyAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105456186"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2012-11-13"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
correction_slips: "Correction Slip | 2013-06-05 | http://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/pdfs/anawcs_20120001_mi.pdf"
---
# National Assembly for Wales (Official Languages) Act 2012

#### Amendment to section 35 of the Act (Equality of treatment)

##### 1

- (1) Section 35 of the Government of Wales Act 2006 (c.32) (“*the Act*”) is amended as follows.

- (2) For subsection (1), substitute—

> (1) The official languages of the Assembly are English and Welsh.
> (1A) The official languages must, in the conduct of Assembly proceedings, be treated on a basis of equality.
> (1B) All persons have the right to use either official language when participating in Assembly proceedings.
> (1C) Reports of Assembly proceedings must, in the case of proceedings which fall within section 1(5)(a) (proceedings of the Assembly), contain a record of what was said, in the official language in which it was said, and also a full translation into the other official language.
> (1D) Paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 makes provision about how the Assembly Commission must enable effect to be given to subsections (1) to (1C).

#### Amendment to Schedule 2 to the Act (Assembly Commission)

##### 2

- (1) Paragraph 8 of Schedule 2 to the Act (Principles in accordance with which functions are to be exercised) is amended as follows.

- (2) For sub-paragraph (3), substitute—

> (3) The Assembly Commission must, in the exercise of its functions—
>   (a) treat the official languages of the Assembly on a basis of equality, and
>   (b) make arrangements for enabling effect to be given to section 35(1), (1A), (1B) and (1C).
> (4) The Assembly Commission must—
>   (a) adopt, and
>   (b) publish,
> a scheme, to be known as the Assembly Commission's Official Languages Scheme (“*the Scheme*”), specifying the measures which it proposes to take in order to comply with its duties under sub-paragraph (3).
> (5) The Scheme must include (amongst other things) provision about—
>   (a) simultaneous interpretation from one official language into the other—
>     (i) in all Assembly proceedings,
>     (ii) in public meetings conducted on behalf of the Assembly Commission, and
>     (iii) in such other meetings connected with the functions of the Assembly or the Assembly Commission as may be provided for in the Scheme,
>   (b) publication of documents in both official languages, subject to any exceptions identified in the Scheme,
>   (c) public engagement with—
>     (i) Assembly proceedings, and
>     (ii) other functions of the Assembly and of the Assembly Commission,
>   through the medium of either of the official languages,
>   (d) practical measures to foster and continually improve freedom of choice of official language—
>     (i) on the part of those participating in Assembly proceedings, and
>     (ii) in relation to the functions of the Assembly or the Assembly Commission generally,
>   (e) the setting of targets and timescales relating to implementation of the Scheme,
>   (f) the allocation of responsibilities for implementing the Scheme,
>   (g) objective means of measuring progress in implementing the Scheme, and
>   (h) a strategy for ensuring that the staff of the Assembly have, collectively, the language skills necessary to enable the Scheme to be implemented.
> (6) The Scheme must include provision relating to the receipt, investigation and consideration of complaints of failures to give effect to provisions of the Scheme.
> (7) The Scheme must identify those services provided or to be provided in the official languages and explain how those services are to be provided in accordance with paragraph 8(5).
> (8) The Assembly Commission must, in respect of each financial year, lay before the Assembly a report setting out how the Commission has, during the year in question, given effect to the Scheme.
> (9) The report prepared by the Assembly Commission under sub-paragraph (8) must include—
>   (a) whether and to what degree the services referred to in sub-paragraph (7) have been provided, and
>   (b) if applicable, the reasons why the Commission has not provided any of the services referred to in sub-paragraph (7) in both official languages.
> (10) The Assembly Commission—
>   (a) must review the Scheme as soon as is reasonably practicable after each ordinary general election, or after an extraordinary general election to which section 5(5) applies, and
>   (b) may, at any time, adopt a new Scheme or an amendment to the existing Scheme.
> (11) The Assembly Commission may not adopt a Scheme, or an amendment to a Scheme, unless (whether before or after the coming into force of this paragraph)—
>   (a) a draft of the Scheme (or of the amendment) has been—
>     (i) published, and
>     (ii) laid before the Assembly,
>   (b) the Assembly Commission has given—
>     (i) those persons whom the Assembly Commission considers it appropriate to consult in relation to the Scheme, and
>     (ii) the Assembly,
>   reasonable opportunity to make representations in relation to the draft,
>   (c) the Assembly Commission has considered any representations made about the draft Scheme (or draft amendment) by—
>     (i) the persons consulted under sub-paragraph (b)(i), and
>     (ii) the Assembly, and
>   (d) the Scheme (or the amendment) incorporating such modifications as the Assembly Commission may, having considered such representations, make, has been laid before and approved by resolution of, the Assembly.
> (12) The Assembly Commission must give effect to the Scheme.

#### Short title and commencement

##### 3

This Act—

- (a) may be referred to as the National Assembly for Wales (Official Languages) Act 2012, and

- (b) comes into force on the day after it receives Royal Assent.

#### Amendment to section 35 of the Act (Equality of treatment)

## Editorial notes

[^key-37a12cf67d164f90381c6b33e9c3bc6d]: [S. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/1) in force at 13.11.2012, see [s. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/3/b)

[^key-68d463b81fc5db78f95bea7af2c53eec]: [S. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/2) in force at 13.11.2012, see [s. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/3/b)

[^key-7fd799d65081b1dd412e7ff8c0dc589a]: [S. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/3) in force at 13.11.2012, see [s. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2012/1/section/3/b)
