---
title: "Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru etc. Act 2013"
identifier: "anaw-2013-4"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-senedd-cymru"
publication_date: "2013-07-30"
last_updated: "2024-08-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-wls"
long_title: "An Act of the National Assembly for Wales to make provision about the constitution and functions of the Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales; to make various provisions relating to local government; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2025-04-16"
type_code: "anaw"
year: "2013"
number: "4"
document_main_type: "WelshNationalAssemblyAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780348105063"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2025-04-01"
number_of_provisions: "131"
stats_total_paragraphs: "163"
stats_body_paragraphs: "125"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "38"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
correction_slips: "Correction Slip | 2018-11-19 | http://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/pdfs/anawcs_20130004_mi_002.pdf ; Correction Slip | 2015-03-31 | http://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/pdfs/anawcs_20130004_mi.pdf"
---
# Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru etc. Act 2013

## PART 1 — INTRODUCTION

#### Relevant authorities

##### 1

- (1) This Part provides an overview of the provisions of this Act.

- (2) Part 2 makes provision about the constitution and functions of the Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru.

- (3) Part 3 makes provision about—

- (a) the duties of the Commission to monitor the arrangements for local government and to conduct reviews where appropriate, and the duties of principal councils to monitor the arrangements for the communities in their area and to conduct reviews where appropriate (see sections 21 and 22),

- (b) the types of reviews that can be conducted, the considerations to be taken into account by the reviewing body and the changes that can be recommended in relation to each type of review (see sections 23 to 33),

- (c) the procedure for conducting reviews (see sections 34 to 36),

- (d) the implementation of recommendations following a review and associated matters (such as the transfer of staff or property between principal councils and other public bodies) (see sections 37 to 44).

- (3A) Part 3A makes provision about Senedd constituency boundary reviews conducted by the Commission.

- (4) Part 4 makes provision about the review of the membership of certain public bodies.

- (5) Part 5 makes provision—

- (a) about the appointment of a presiding member for a principal council;

- (b) restating and extending the powers of local authorities in relation to promoting and opposing private Bills;

- (c) requiring community council information to be made available electronically;

- (d) about the electronic publication of certain public bodies' (including local authorities) registers of members' interests;

- (e) relating to remote attendance at meetings of principal councils;

- (f) relating to the role of democratic services committees;

- (g) applying political balance requirements to the audit committees of principal councils;

- (h) relating to the functions of the Independent Remuneration Panel for Wales and how it prepares reports;

- (i) about the establishment of joint standards committees;

- (j) enabling the standards committee or monitoring officer of a relevant authority to refer cases relating to conduct to the standards committee or monitoring officer of another relevant authority.

- (6) Part 6 makes general provision about this Act.

## PART 2 — Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru

### Continuation and name

#### Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales

##### 2

- (1) The body corporate called the Local Government Boundary Commission for Wales (established under section 53 of the 1972 Act) is to continue in existence.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) That body corporate (which was first renamed by subsection (2)) is renamed the Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru (referred to in this Act as “the Commission).

### Status

#### Status

##### 3

- (1) The Commission is not to be regarded as a servant or agent of the Crown or as enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

- (2) The Commission's property is not to be regarded as property of, or property held on behalf of, the Crown.

### Members

#### Membership

##### 4

- (1) The Commission consists of—

- (a) a member to chair the Commission (the “chairing member”),

- (b) a member to act as deputy to the chairing member, and

- (c) at least 1 but no more than 7 other members.

- (2) Members are to be appointed by the Welsh Ministers on such terms and conditions as the Welsh Ministers may determine (including conditions as to remuneration, allowances and expenses).

- (3) A member may not be—

- (a) a member of a UK legislature;

- (ba) a‍ person engaged by a member of‍ a UK legislature, under a contract of service or a contract for services, in connection with the carrying out of the member’s functions;

- (bb) a person engaged by a registered political party under a contract of service or a contract for services;

- (bc) a special advise‍r;

- (c) a member of a local authority ...;

- (d) an officer of a local authority ...;

- (e) a member of a National Park authority for a National Park in Wales;

- (f) a police and crime commissioner for a police area in Wales; or

- (g) a member of the Commission's staff.

#### Tenure

##### 5

Members of the Commission hold and vacate office in accordance with their terms and conditions of appointment.

### Proceedings

#### Proceedings

##### 6

- (1) The quorum for meetings of the Commission is 3.

- (1A) The Welsh Ministers may by regulations amend subsection (1) to change the quorum, but may not change the quorum to a number which is lower than 3.

- (2) The Commission may otherwise regulate its own procedure.

- (3) The validity of anything done by the Commission is not affected by any defect in the appointment of a member.

#### Seal and validity of documents

##### 7

- (1) The Commission may have a seal.

- (2) The application of the seal is authenticated by the signature of a member of the Commission or of another person authorised by the Commission for that purpose.

- (3) A document purporting to be duly executed under the seal of the Commission, or signed on its behalf by the chief executive or another member of staff authorised to do so, is to be received in evidence and taken to be so executed or signed unless the contrary is proved.

### Staff, experts and assistant commissioners

#### Chief executive

##### 8

- (1) The Commission must employ a chief executive.

- (2) The chief executive is to be appointed by the Commission on such terms and conditions as it may determine (including conditions as to remuneration, pension, allowances and expenses).

- (2A) But if the office of chief executive has been vacant for more than six months, the Welsh Ministers may appoint a chief executive on such terms and conditions as they may determine (including conditions as to remuneration, pension, allowances and expenses).

- (3) Before appointing a chief executive under subsection (2A), the Welsh Ministers must consult the Commission.

- (4) The chief executive may not be—

- (a) a member of a UK legislature;

- (ba) a‍ person engaged by a member of‍ a UK legislature, under a contract of service or a contract for services, in connection with the carrying out of the member’s functions;

- (bb) a person engaged by a registered political party under a contract of service or a contract for services;

- (bc) a special advise‍r;

- (c) a member of a local authority;

- (d) an officer of a local authority;

- (e) a member of a National Park authority for a National Park in Wales;

- (f) a police and crime commissioner for a police area in Wales.

- (5) The Commission must, in exercising its functions under this section, have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers.

#### Other staff

##### 9

- (1) The Commission may employ staff.

- (2) Staff are to be employed on terms and conditions determined by the Commission (including conditions as to remuneration, pension, allowances and expenses).

- (3) The Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers before determining the amounts payable to its staff in respect of remuneration, pensions, allowances and expenses.

#### Experts

##### 10

- (1) The Commission may appoint a person (an “expert”) to assist it in the exercise of its functions.

- (2) Before appointing an expert the Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers.

- (3) An appointment under subsection (1) may not be made unless the Commission is satisfied that the expert has knowledge, experience or expertise relevant to the exercise of its functions.

- (4) The Commission may pay the expert such remuneration, allowances or expenses as it may determine.

- (5) The Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers before determining the remuneration or allowances payable to an expert.

#### Assistant commissioners

##### 11

- (1) The Commission may appoint one or more persons (to be known as an “assistant commissioner) to whom the Commission may delegate functions in accordance with section 13(1).

- (2) An assistant commissioner may not be—

- (a) a member of a UK legislature;

- (ba) a‍ person engaged by a member of‍ a UK legislature, under a contract of service or a contract for services, in connection with the carrying out of the member’s functions;

- (bb) a person engaged by a registered political party under a contract of service or a contract for services;

- (bc) a special adviser‍;

- (c) a member of a local authority ...;

- (d) an officer of a local authority ...;

- (e) a member of a National Park authority for a National Park in Wales;

- (f) a police and crime commissioner for a police area in Wales; or

- (g) a member of the Commission's staff.

- (3) Before appointing an assistant commissioner the Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) The Commission may pay an assistant commissioner such remuneration, allowances or expenses as it may determine.

- (5) The Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers before determining the remuneration or allowances payable to an assistant commissioner.

### General powers and directions

#### Powers

##### 12

- (1) The Commission may do anything which is calculated to facilitate, or is conducive or incidental to, the exercise of its functions.

- (2) But the Commission may not—

- (a) borrow money;

- (b) acquire land or other property without the consent of the Welsh Ministers; or

- (c) form and promote companies.

#### Delegation

##### 13

- (1) The Commission may delegate to one or more of its members or one or more assistant commissioners such of its functions under —

- (a) Chapters 2 to 4, 6 or 7 of Part 3 (functions relating to the conduct of reviews of local government or local inquiries);

- (b) Part 3A (functions relating to Senedd constituency boundary reviews);

- (c) Schedule 1 to the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (functions relating to initial reviews),

as it may determine to the extent so delegated.

- (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the Commission's—

- (a) responsibility for exercise of delegated functions, or

- (b) ability to exercise delegated functions.

#### Directions

##### 14

- (1) The Commission must comply with any direction (general or specific) given to it by the Welsh Ministers.

- (2) A direction given by the Welsh Ministers under this Act may be varied or revoked by a subsequent direction.

- (3) This section does not permit the Welsh Ministers to give the Commission a direction relating to the exercise of its functions under Part 3A (functions relating to Senedd constituency boundary reviews).

### Financial matters

#### Funding

##### 15

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may pay grants to the Commission of such amounts as they may determine.

- (2) A grant is made subject to any conditions specified by the Welsh Ministers (including conditions about repayment).

#### Accounting officer

##### 16

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must designate a person to act as the Commission's accounting officer.

- (2) The accounting officer has, in relation to the Commission's accounts and finances, the responsibilities specified in a direction by the Welsh Ministers.

- (3) The responsibilities that may be specified include—

- (a) responsibilities in relation to the signing of accounts;

- (b) responsibilities for the propriety and regularity of the Commission's finances;

- (c) responsibilities for the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which the Commission uses its resources;

- (d) responsibilities owed to the Welsh Ministers, the National Assembly for Wales or the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly;

- (e) responsibilities owed to the House of Commons or the Committee of Public Accounts of that House.

#### Audit committee

##### 17

- (1) The Commission must establish a committee (an “audit committee”) to—

- (a) review and scrutinise the Commission's financial affairs,

- (b) review and assess the Commission's risk management, internal control and corporate governance arrangements,

- (c) review and assess the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which resources have been used in discharging the Commission's functions, and

- (d) make reports and recommendations to the Commission in relation to reviews conducted under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c).

- (2) The audit committee must send copies of its reports and recommendations to the Welsh Ministers.

- (3) It is for the audit committee to determine how to exercise its functions under this section.

#### Audit committee: membership

##### 18

- (1) The audit committee is to consist of—

- (a) at least two members of the Commission, and

- (b) at least one lay member.

- (2) The Commission's chairing member may not be a member of the audit committee.

- (3) The Commission may pay such remuneration, allowances and expenses to a lay member as it may determine.

- (4) The Commission must consult the Welsh Ministers before determining the remuneration or allowances payable to a lay member.

- (5) In this section “*lay member*” means any person other than—

- (a) a member or an employee of the Commission, or

- (b) an expert appointed under section 10(1) or assistant commissioner appointed under section 11(1).

#### Accounts and external audit

##### 19

- (1) The Commission must for each financial year—

- (a) keep proper accounts and proper records in relation to them, and

- (b) prepare a statement of accounts.

- (2) Each statement of accounts must comply with any directions given by the Welsh Ministers as to—

- (a) the information to be contained in it,

- (b) the manner in which the information is to be presented,

- (c) the methods and principles according to which the statement is to be prepared.

- (3) No later than 31 August after the end of each financial year the Commission must submit its statement of accounts to—

- (a) the Welsh Ministers, and

- (b) the Auditor General for Wales.

- (4) The Auditor General for Wales must—

- (a) examine, certify and report on the statement of accounts, and

- (b) no later than 4 months after the statement was submitted, lay before the National Assembly for Wales a copy of the certified statement and report.

- (5) In this section, “*financial year*” means the period of 12 months ending on 31 March.

#### Annual reports

##### 20

- (1) No later than 30 November after the end of each financial year the Commission must submit a report to the Welsh Ministers on the discharge of its functions during that year.

- (2) The Welsh Ministers must publish the report and lay a copy before the National Assembly for Wales.

- (3) In this section, “*financial year*” has the same meaning as in section 19.

## PART 3 — ARRANGEMENTS FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT

### CHAPTER 1 — DUTIES TO MONITOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT ARRANGEMENTS

### Duty of the Commission

#### Duty of the Commission to monitor arrangements for local government

##### 21

- (1) The Commission must, for the purpose of considering whether it is appropriate to make or recommend changes under this Part, monitor the areas and electoral arrangements relevant to local government in Wales.

- (2) In pursuance of that duty, the Commission must carry out such reviews under this Part as are required under this or any other enactment, as may be directed by the Welsh Ministers, or as it otherwise considers appropriate.

- (3) In carrying out its duties under this Part (and in conducting any review), the Commission must seek to ensure effective and convenient local government.

### Duties of a principal council

#### Duties of principal councils in relation to area

##### 22

- (1) A principal council must, for the purpose of considering whether it is appropriate to make or recommend changes under this Part, monitor—

- (a) the communities in its area, and

- (b) the electoral arrangements of such communities.

- (2) In pursuance of that duty, a principal council must—

- (a) have regard to the Commission's timetable for conducting the reviews of principal areas' electoral arrangements required by section 29(1), and

- (b) carry out such reviews under this Part as are required under this or any other enactment, as may be directed by the Welsh Ministers, or as it otherwise considers appropriate.

- (3) In carrying out its duties under this Part (and in conducting any review), a principal council must seek to ensure effective and convenient local government.

- (4) A principal council must provide the Commission with such information as it may reasonably require in connection with the exercise of its functions under this Part.

- (5) A principal council must, in respect of each reporting period, publish a report describing how it has discharged its duty under subsection (1) and send a copy of the report to the Commission.

- (6) In this section, “*reporting period*” means—

- (a) the period of 10 years beginning with—

- (i) the date on which the principal council last published a report under section 55(2A) or, if earlier, section 57(4A) of the 1972 Act, or

- (ii) in the case of a principal council which has not published such a report before coming into force this section, the day on which this section comes into force, and

- (b) each subsequent period of 10 years.

### CHAPTER 2 — AREA REVIEWS

### Principal areas

#### Review of principal area boundaries

##### 23

- (1) The Commission may, of its own initiative or at the request of a local authority, conduct a review of one or more principal areas.

- (2) But the Commission must not conduct a review under subsection (1) at the request of a local authority if it considers that doing so would impede the proper exercise of its functions.

- (3) The changes that the Commission may recommend in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) such principal area boundary changes as it considers appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of any principal area boundary changes such community boundary changes, preserved county changes, community council changes or electoral arrangements changes as it considers appropriate.

- (4) For the purposes of this Part—

- (a) a reference to a “*community boundary change*” is a reference to—

- (i) altering the boundary of a community;

- (ii) abolishing a community;

- (iii) constituting a new community;

- (b) a reference to “*community council change*” is a reference to—

- (i) constituting a council for a community or a common council for a group of communities;

- (ii) dissolving a community council (separate or common);

- (iii) separating a community from a group of communities having a common community council;

- (iv) adding a community to a group of communities having a common community council;

- (c) a reference to an “*electoral arrangements change*” is a reference to a change to the electoral arrangements for any local government area;

- (d) a reference to a “*preserved county change*” is a reference to a change to the area of a preserved county;

- (e) a reference to a “*principal area boundary change*” is a reference to—

- (i) altering the boundary of a principal area;

- (ii) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (iii) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Review of principal areas following new town order

##### 24

- (1) This section applies where, under section 1 of the New Towns Act 1981 (c. 64) (designation of areas of land for new towns)—

- (a) the Welsh Ministers have made an order which designates any area of land as the site of a new town, and

- (b) the area of the new town so designated is not wholly comprised within a principal area.

- (2) The Welsh Ministers must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of operation of the order, give notice to the Commission specifying the principal areas affected by the order.

- (3) The Commission must, on receipt of a notice under subsection (2), conduct a review under section 23 of any principal areas specified in the notice.

### Communities

#### Review of community boundaries by principal council

##### 25

- (1) A principal council may conduct a review of one or more communities in its area—

- (a) of its own initiative, or

- (b) at the request of—

- (i) a community council in its area, or

- (ii) a community meeting in its area.

- (2) But a principal council must not conduct a review under subsection (1) at the request of a community council or a community meeting if it considers that doing so would impede the proper exercise of its functions.

- (3) The changes that a principal council may recommend in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) such community boundary changes as it considers appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of any community boundary changes, such community council changes and associated changes to the electoral arrangements of—

- (i) the community or communities under review,

- (ii) the principal area,

as it considers appropriate.

- (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(b)(ii), section 30 applies to a principal council as it applies to the Commission.

- (5) A principal council may enter into an agreement with the Commission for the Commission (under section 26) to exercise the council's functions under this section.

- (6) The agreement may be on such terms and conditions as the principal council and the Commission consider appropriate.

#### Review of community boundaries by the Commission

##### 26

- (1) The Commission may, in any of the circumstances described in subsection (2), conduct a review of one or more communities in a principal area.

- (2) The circumstances are—

- (a) where the Commission has agreed to exercise a principal council's functions under section 25(5),

- (b) where a principal council has submitted recommendations to the Commission under section 36(5) and—

- (i) the council's recommendation is that no community boundary changes should be made,

- (ii) the council and the Commission are unable to agree to such modifications to the recommendations as the Commission considers necessary for it to implement them,

- (iii) the Commission does not consider it appropriate to implement any of the council's recommendations, or

- (iv) the Commission considers that the review has not been conducted by the council in accordance with this Part or has otherwise been defective in some material way,

- (c) where a principal council has not complied with a direction by the Welsh Ministers to conduct a review of one or more of its communities.

- (3) The changes that the Commission may recommend in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) such community boundary changes as it considers appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of any community boundary changes, such community council changes and associated changes to the electoral arrangements of—

- (i) the community or communities under review,

- (ii) the principal area,

as it considers appropriate.

- (4) Where the Commission conducts a review in the circumstances described in subsection (2)(b)(iv) or (c), it may recover the cost of doing so from the principal council.

- (5) In the event of a disagreement between the Commission and the principal council as to the amount payable to the Commission under subsection (4), the Welsh Ministers may determine that amount.

- (6) Any sum payable to the Commission under this section is recoverable as a debt due to the Commission.

### Preserved counties

#### Review of preserved counties

##### 27

- (1) The Commission may conduct a review of one or more preserved counties.

- (2) The Commission may recommend such changes to the area of a preserved county as it considers appropriate.

- (3) In considering whether changes to the area of the preserved county are appropriate (whether in relation to a review under this section or as part of any other review) the Commission must have regard, in particular, to the purposes for which the preserved counties are retained.

- (4) For the purposes of this Part, “*preserved county*” means any county created by the 1972 Act as a county in Wales as it stood immediately before the passing of the Local Government (Wales) Act 1994 but subject to any provision of that Act or any provision made under the 1972 Act or this Act redrawing its boundaries.

### Seaward boundaries

#### Review of seaward boundaries

##### 28

- (1) The Commission may conduct a review of so much of the boundary of a local government area (which includes, for the purposes of this section, a preserved county) as —

- (a) lies below the high-water mark of medium tides, and

- (b) does not form a common boundary with another local government area.

- (2) The changes that the Commission may recommend in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) the inclusion within the local government area of any area of the sea which, at the time of the review, does not form part of another local government area, and

- (b) the exclusion of any area of the sea which, at the time of the review, forms part of the local government area.

### CHAPTER 3 — ELECTORAL ARRANGEMENTS REVIEWS

### Principal areas

#### Review of electoral arrangements for principal area

##### 29

- (1) The Commission must conduct a review of the electoral arrangements for each principal area at least once in every review period.

- (2) The Commission must, in respect of each review period—

- (a) prepare and publish a programme which sets out its proposed timetable for conducting all the reviews required under subsection (1) during the period, and

- (b) send a copy of the programme to the Welsh Ministers.

- (3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) “*review period*” means—

- (a) the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which this section comes into force, and

- (b) each subsequent period of 10 years.

- (4) The Commission must comply with its duties in subsection (2)—

- (a) in respect of the the first review period, as soon as possible after it begins, and

- (b) in respect of each subsequent review period, before the period begins.

- (5) The Commission may also, of its own initiative or at the request of a principal council, conduct a review of the electoral arrangements for a principal area.

- (6) But the Commission must not conduct a review under subsection (5) at the request of a principal council if it considers that doing so would impede the proper exercise of its functions.

- (7) The changes that the Commission may recommend in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) such changes to the electoral arrangements for the principal area under review as appears to it appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of such change—

- (i) such community boundary changes as it considers appropriate in relation to any community in the principal area,

- (ii) such community council changes and changes to the electoral arrangements for such a community as it considers appropriate,

- (iii) such preserved county changes as it considers appropriate.

- (8) The Commission must not, in any period of 9 months preceding the day of an ordinary council election under section 26 of the 1972 Act (elections of councillors), make or publish any recommendations relating to the electoral arrangements of a principal area.

- (9) In this Part, a reference to the electoral arrangements of a principal area is a reference to —

- (a) the number of members of the council for the principal area,

- (b) the number, type and boundaries of the electoral wards into which the principal area is for the time being divided for the purpose of the election of members,

- (c) the number of members to be elected for any electoral ward in the principal area, and

- (d) the name of any electoral ward.

- (10) For the purposes of subsection (9)(b), a reference to the type of an electoral ward is a reference to whether the ward is a single or multiple member ward.

- (11) In this Part—

- “*electoral ward*” means any area for which members are elected to a local authority,

- “*multiple member ward*” means an electoral ward in respect of which a specified number (greater than one) of members are to be elected for that ward, and

- “*single member ward*” means an electoral ward in respect of which only one member is to be elected.

#### Considerations for a review of principal area electoral arrangements

##### 30

- (1) The Commission, in considering whether to make recommendations for changes to the electoral arrangements for a principal area, must—

- (a) seek to ensure that the ratio of local government electors to the number of members of the council to be elected is, as nearly as may be, the same in every electoral ward of the principal area,

- (b) have regard to—

- (i) the desirability of fixing boundaries for electoral wards which are and will remain easily identifiable,

- (ii) the desirability of not breaking local ties when fixing boundaries for electoral wards.

- (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), account is to be taken of—

- (a) any discrepancy between the number of local government electors and the number of persons that are eligible to be local government electors (as indicated by relevant official statistics), and

- (b) any change to the number or distribution of local government electors in the principal area which is likely to take place in the period of five years immediately following the making of any recommendation.

- (3) In this section, “*relevant official statistics*” means such official statistics within the meaning of section 6 of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007 (c. 18) as the Commission considers appropriate.

- (4) In this Part, “*local government elector*” means a person registered as a local government elector in the register of electors in accordance with the provisions of the Representation of the People Acts.

### Communities

#### Review of electoral arrangements for community by principal council

##### 31

- (1) A principal council may conduct a review of the electoral arrangements for a community in its area—

- (a) of its own initiative, or

- (b) at the request of—

- (i) the community council for the community, or

- (ii) not less than 30 local government electors registered in the community.

- (2) But a principal council must not conduct a review under subsection (1) at the request of the community council or local government electors if it considers that doing so would impede the proper exercise of its functions.

- (3) The changes that a principal council may propose and make in relation to a review under this section are—

- (a) such changes to the electoral arrangements for the community as the principal council considers appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of any change to the electoral arrangements for the community, such changes to the electoral arrangements of the principal area as it considers appropriate.

- (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(b), section 30 applies to a principal council as it applies to the Commission.

- (5) A principal council may enter into an agreement with the Commission for the Commission (under section 32) to exercise the council's function of conducting reviews under this section.

- (6) The agreement may be on such terms and conditions as the principal council and the Commission consider appropriate.

- (7) In this Part, a reference to the electoral arrangements of a community is a reference to—

- (a) the number of members of the council for the community;

- (b) its division into wards (if appropriate) for the purposes of the election of councillors;

- (c) the number and boundaries of any wards;

- (d) the number of members to be elected for any ward;

- (e) the name of any ward.

#### Review of electoral arrangements for community by the Commission

##### 32

- (1) The Commission may, in any of the circumstances described in subsection (2), conduct a review of the electoral arrangements for a community.

- (2) The circumstances are—

- (a) where the Commission has agreed to exercise a principal council's function of conducting reviews under section 31(5);

- (b) where the Commission has been requested to conduct a review of a community by —

- (i) the community council, or

- (ii) not less than 30 local government electors from the community;

- (c) where a principal council has not complied with a direction by the Welsh Ministers to conduct a review of the electoral arrangements for one or more of its communities.

- (3) But the Commission must not conduct a review under subsection (1) following a request by a community council or local government electors if it considers that doing so would impede the proper exercise of its functions.

- (4) The changes that the Commission may recommend in relation to any review under this section are—

- (a) such changes to the electoral arrangements for the community that the Commission considers appropriate, and

- (b) in consequence of any change to the electoral arrangements for the community, such changes to the electoral arrangements of the principal area, as it considers appropriate.

- (5) Where the Commission conducts a review in the circumstances described in subsection (2)(c), it may recover the cost of doing so from the principal council.

- (6) In the event of a disagreement between the Commission and the principal council as to the amount payable to the Commission under subsection (5), the Welsh Ministers may determine that amount.

- (7) Any sum payable to the Commission under this section is recoverable as a debt due to the Commission.

#### Considerations for a review of community electoral arrangements

##### 33

- (1) This section applies where a principal council is considering making or, as the case may be, the Commission is considering recommending, changes to the electoral arrangements for a community.

- (2) In considering whether a community should be divided into community wards, regard is to be had to—

- (a) whether the number or distribution of the local government electors for the community is such as to make a single election of community councillors impractical or inconvenient, and

- (b) whether it is desirable that any area of the community should be separately represented on the community council.

- (3) Where it is decided to divide a community into community wards, in considering the size and boundaries of the wards and in fixing the number of community councillors to be elected for each ward, regard is to be had to—

- (a) any change in the number or distribution of local government electors of the community which is likely to take place within the period of five years immediately following any recommendation,

- (b) the desirability of fixing boundaries which are and will remain easily identifiable, and

- (c) any local ties which will be broken by the fixing of any particular boundaries.

- (4) Where it is decided not to divide a community into community wards, in fixing the number of councillors to be elected for each community, regard is to be had to—

- (a) the number and distribution of local government electors in the community, and

- (b) any change in such number or distribution which is likely to take place within the period of five years immediately following the fixing of the number of community councillors.

- (5) For the purposes of this section, account is to be taken of any discrepancy between the number of local government electors and number of persons that are eligible to be local government electors (as indicated by relevant official statistics).

- (6) In this section, “*relevant official statistics*” means such official statistics (within the meaning of section 6 of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007 (c. 18)) as the Commission, or as the case may be, principal council considers appropriate.

### CHAPTER 4 — PROCEDURE FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT REVIEWS

### Procedure for reviews

#### Pre-review procedure

##### 34

- (1) Before conducting a review under this Part, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council must take such steps as it considers appropriate to—

- (a) bring the review to the attention of the mandatory consultees and any other person it considers likely to be interested in the review, and

- (b) make the mandatory consultees and such other interested person aware of any directions given by the Welsh Ministers which are relevant to the review.

- (2) In relation to a review to be conducted under section 29, before conducting the review, the Commission must also consult the mandatory consultees on its intended procedure and methodology for the review and, in particular, on how it proposes to determine the appropriate number of members for any principal council in the principal area or areas under review.

- (3) For the purposes of this Part, the “mandatory consultees” are—

- (a) any local authority affected by the review,

- (b) except in relation to a review under section 28 (reviews of seaward boundaries), the police and crime commissioner for any police area which may be affected by the review,

- (ba) any fire and rescue authority (constituted by a scheme under section 2 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 (c. 21), or a scheme to which section 4 of that Act applies) for an area in Wales which may be affected by the review,

- (c) except where the review is (or is to be) conducted by it, the Commission,

- (d) any organisation representing the staff employed by local authorities which has asked to be consulted, and

- (e) such other persons as may be specified by order made by the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to a review conducted by the Commission in the circumstances described in section 26(2)(b)(ii) or (iii).

#### Consultation and investigation

##### 35

- (1) In conducting a review under this Part, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council (“the reviewing body”) must—

- (a) consult the mandatory consultees and such other persons as it considers appropriate, and

- (b) conduct such investigations as it considers appropriate.

- (2) After carrying out the consultation and investigations under subsection (1), the reviewing body must prepare a report containing—

- (a) any proposals for change it considers appropriate or, if it does not consider any change appropriate, a proposal to that effect,

- (b) details of the review it conducted.

- (3) The reviewing body must—

- (a) publish the report electronically,

- (b) secure that the report is available for inspection (without charge) at the offices of any principal council with an interest in the review for the duration of the period for representations,

- (c) send copies of the report to the Welsh Ministers and the mandatory consultees,

- (d) inform any other person who submitted evidence to the reviewing body how to obtain a copy of the report, and

- (e) invite representations and notify the persons mentioned in (c) and (d) of the period for representations.

- (4) For the purpose of subsection (3), the “period for representations” is a period of not less than 6, nor more than 12, weeks (as determined by the reviewing body) beginning no earlier than one week after notice of the period is given.

- (5) For the purposes of this section, a principal council has an interest in a review if—

- (a) it is the reviewing body,

- (b) its area is under review,

- (c) a community in its area (or the electoral arrangements of such a community) is under review.

- (6) In this section and section 36 a reference to a proposal for change is a reference to any change that the reviewing body may recommend or make (including consequential change) in relation to the type of review being conducted.

#### Reporting on review

##### 36

- (1) The Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council (“the reviewing body”) must, after the period for representations under section 35(3) has ended, consider its proposals for change having regard to any representations received by it during the period.

- (2) The reviewing body must then prepare a further report.

- (3) Except in relation to a review under section 31, the report must contain—

- (a) any recommendation for change which the reviewing body considers appropriate or, if it does not consider any change appropriate, a recommendation to that effect,

- (b) details of the review conducted and the consultation carried out in respect of the proposals, and

- (c) details of any changes to the proposals made in light of the representations received and an explanation of why those changes have been made.

- (4) Where the review is under section 31, the report must contain—

- (a) the changes the reviewing body intends to make to the electoral arrangements for the community under review, or if it does not consider that any such change is appropriate, a statement to that effect,

- (b) details of the review conducted and the consultation carried out in respect of the proposals, and

- (c) details of any changes to the proposals made in light of the representations it received and an explanation of why those changes have been made.

- (5) The reviewing body must—

- (a) submit the report and its recommendations to the appropriate implementing authority (except where it is the implementing authority),

- (b) publish the report electronically and secure that it is available for inspection (without charge) at the offices of any principal council with an interest for a period of at least 6 weeks beginning with the date of publication,

- (c) send a copy of the report to the mandatory consultees, Ordnance Survey and (unless they are the implementing authority) the Welsh Ministers,

- (d) inform any other person who submitted evidence or made representations in relation to the report published under section 35 how to obtain a copy of the report.

- (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), the “appropriate implementing authority” is—

- (a) in relation to a review under section 23, the Welsh Ministers and, in a case where the Commission are making a recommendation for change to a police area, the Secretary of State (in so far as relating to that change);

- (b) in relation to a review under section 25, the Commission;

- (c) in relation to a review under section 26, 27, 28 or 29, the Welsh Ministers;

- (d) in relation to a review under section 32, the principal council of the community which has been the subject of the review.

- (7) Where the principal council submits a report to the Commission in relation to a review under section 25, the Commission is not to be treated as a mandatory consultee for the purposes of subsection (5)(c).

- (8) For the purposes of this section a principal council has an interest in a review if—

- (a) it is the reviewing body;

- (b) its area is under review;

- (c) a community in its area (or the electoral arrangements of such a community) is under review.

- (9) In this section, a reference to a recommendation for change is a reference to any change that the reviewing body may recommend or make (including consequential change) in relation to the type of review being conducted.

### CHAPTER 5 — IMPLEMENTATION FOLLOWING REVIEW

### Implementation by the Welsh Ministers

#### Implementation by the Welsh Ministers

##### 37

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may, after receiving a report containing recommendations from the Commission in relation to a review conducted under section 23, 26, 27, 28 or 29, or a request for implementation of its recommendations under section 39(7)—

- (a) by order implement any recommendation, with or without modification, or

- (b) decide to take no action.

- (2) But the Welsh Ministers may only implement a recommendation with modification if—

- (a) in a case involving recommendations for change to electoral arrangements for a principal area, they have considered the matters described in section 30 and are satisfied that it is appropriate to make the modification,

- (b) in a case involving recommendations for change to electoral arrangements for a community, they have considered the matters described in section 33 and are satisfied that it is appropriate to make the modification, and

- (c) in any case, they are satisfied that the modification is in the interests of effective and convenient local government.

- (3) No order may be made under subsection (1)(a) until the expiry of a period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the Welsh Ministers receive the recommendations.

- (4) The Commission must provide the Welsh Ministers with such further information in relation to its recommendations as the Welsh Ministers may reasonably require.

### Non-ministerial implementation

#### Implementation of community boundary change

##### 38

- (1) The Commission may, after receiving a report containing recommendations for change from a principal council in relation to a review conducted under section 25—

- (a) by order implement the recommendations without modification,

- (b) by order implement the recommendations with such modification as may be agreed with the principal council, or

- (c) in the circumstances described in section 26(2)(b)(ii) or (iii), conduct its own review.

- (2) No order may be made under subsection (1) until the expiry of a period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the Commission receives the principal council's recommendations.

- (3) An order under subsection (1) which contains changes to the electoral arrangements of a principal area may be made only with the consent of the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) The principal council which made the recommendations must provide the Commission with such further information in relation to the recommendations or the procedure followed as it may reasonably require.

#### Implementation of community electoral arrangements change

##### 39

- (1) A principal council may by order implement the changes described in a report prepared by the council under section 36(4).

- (2) No order may be made under subsection (1) until the expiry of a period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the principal council published its report.

- (3) A principal council may, after receiving a report containing recommendations for change from the Commission in relation to a review under section 32—

- (a) by order implement the recommendations without modification,

- (b) by order implement the recommendations with such modification as may be agreed with the Commission,

- (c) decide to take no action and notify the Commission accordingly.

- (4) No order may be made under subsection (3) until the expiry of a period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the council receives the report.

- (5) An order under subsection (1) or (3) which contains changes to the electoral arrangements of a principal area may be made only with the consent of the Welsh Ministers.

- (6) Subsection (7) applies where—

- (a) the principal council has notified the Commission that it does not intend to take any action in respect of the recommendations, or

- (b) the principal council has not made an order (with or without modification) within the period of 6 months beginning with the date on which the council received the Commission's recommendations.

- (7) The Commission may request the Welsh Ministers implement the recommendations under section 37.

### Further provision about implementation and implementation orders

#### Implementation orders: consequential provision

##### 40

- (1) An order made by the Welsh Ministers, the Commission or a principal council under section 37, 38, 39 or 43 may make such incidental, consequential, supplemental or transitional provision as they consider necessary or expedient.

- (2) Such orders may, in particular, make provision about—

- (a) the name of any altered area or electoral ward;

- (b) the total number of councillors, the apportionment of councillors among electoral wards, the assignment of existing councillors to new or altered electoral wards and the first election of councillors for any new or altered electoral ward;

- (c) the holding of a fresh election of councillors for all electoral wards in the local government area in question;

- (d) the order of retirement of councillors for an electoral ward;

- (e) the constitution, election to and membership of any public body in any area or electoral ward affected by the order;

- (f) any of the matters described in section 41(2).

- (3) Provision of the type described in subsection (2)(c) may only be made in consequence of a change to the electoral arrangements for an area made following a review under Chapter 3.

- (4) An order made by the Welsh Ministers under section 37 or 43 may apply or modify any enactment or charter.

- (5) Nothing in this section prejudices the generality of section 71 (orders and regulations).

- (6) In this section—

- “*councillor*” means an elected member of a local authority;

- “*public body*” includes—a local authority,any trustees, commissioners or other persons who, for public purposes and not for their own profit, act under any enactment or instrument for the improvement of any place, for the supply of water to any place, or for providing or maintaining a cemetery or market in any place, andany other authority having powers of levying or issuing a precept for any rate for public purposes.

#### General consequential and transitional provision

##### 41

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make such incidental, consequential, supplemental or transitional provision as they consider necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or in connection with, giving full effect to orders made under section 37, 38, 39 or 43.

- (2) Regulations under this section may, in particular, make provision about—

- (a) the functions, area or jurisdiction in or over an area (or part of an area), of any public body or office within an area (or electoral ward) affected by an order made under this Part;

- (b) the costs and expenses of a public body or office affected by such an order;

- (c) the transfer of staff of affected public bodies or offices;

- (d) the transfer, management or custody of property (whether real or personal) and the transfer of rights and liabilities;

- (e) the transfer of legal proceedings.

- (3) Regulations under this section may apply or modify any enactment or charter.

- (4) Nothing in this section prejudices the generality of section 71 (orders and regulations).

- (5) In this section, “*public body*” has the same meaning as it has in section 40(6).

#### Transfers of staff

##### 42

An order under section 37, 38, 39 or 43 or, as the case may be, regulations under section 41 which makes provision about the transfer of staff must include provision to secure that —

- (a) a person who is transferred to a new employer remains on terms and conditions not less favourable than those to which the person was subject prior to the transfer until such time as the person—

- (i) leaves the employment of the new employer, or

- (ii) is served with a statement in writing referring to the order or regulations and specifying new terms and conditions of employment, and

- (b) provided the person is engaged in duties reasonably similar to those held immediately prior to the transfer, any new terms and conditions that are specified in a notice under paragraph (a)(ii) are not less favourable than those the person had prior to the transfer.

#### Variation and revocation of orders

##### 43

- (1) Other than as provided for by this section, orders made under this section or section 37, 38 or 39 may not be varied or revoked by the Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, the principal council.

- (2) The Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council may by order vary or revoke—

- (a) any provision contained in an order made under this section or section 37, 38 or 39 which is of a type described in section 40(2);

- (b) any similar provision contained in an order made under section 67 (consequential and transitional arrangements) or made by virtue of section 255 (transfer of officers) of the 1972 Act.

- (3) Except as provided for in subsections (4) and (5), an order to vary or revoke provisions of the type described in subsection (2) may be made only by the persons who, or body which, made the order containing the provision to be varied or revoked (“*the original order*”).

- (4) The Welsh Ministers make make an order under this section where the original order—

- (a) was made by the Secretary of State and relates to Wales, or

- (b) was made by the National Assembly for Wales (as constituted under the Government of Wales Act 1998).

- (5) A principal council may make an order under this section where the original order was made by a predecessor council which no longer exists.

- (6) But an order made in pursuance of subsection (5) may vary or revoke provision in the original order only in so far as it relates to the principal council's area.

- (7) Before making an order under subsection (2) the Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, the principal council must comply with subsections (8) and (9).

- (8) The Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, the principal council must —

- (a) send a copy of a draft of the order to any local authority or public body they or it consider likely to be affected by the order,

- (b) publish the draft order in such manner as they or it consider likely to bring it to the attention of persons who may have an interest in the order,

- (c) secure that a copy of the draft order is available for inspection by interested persons at such places as they or it consider appropriate, and

- (d) invite representations in relation to the draft order within the period of 2 months beginning on the date of publication under paragraph (b).

- (9) The Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, the principal council must consider any representations received within the 2 month period and may modify the order in light of such representations.

- (10) Where the Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council is satisfied that a mistake has occurred in the preparation of an order under this section or sections 37, 38 or 39 the Welsh Ministers, the Commission or the principal council may by order make such provision as they or it consider necessary or expedient to rectify the mistake.

- (11) In subsection (10), “*mistake*”, in relation to an order, includes a provision contained in or omitted from the order in reliance on information supplied by any public body which is inaccurate or incomplete.

- (12) The Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council may not exercise the power in subsection (10) in relation to an order made by someone else.

- (12A) The Welsh Ministers may by order vary or revoke an order under this section or section 37, 38 or 39 (regardless of whether they made the order) in consequence of regulations under paragraph 9 or 10 of Schedule 1 to the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021.

- (13) In this section, “*public body*” has the same meaning as it has in section 40(6).

### Agreements between public bodies to deal with change

#### Transitional agreements as to property and finance

##### 44

- (1) Any public body affected by the alteration, abolition or constitution of an area or electoral ward by an order under section 37, 38, 39 or 43 ... may enter into an agreement with another affected public body about—

- (a) any property, income, rights or liabilities affected by the change;

- (b) any financial relationships between the parties to the agreement;

- (c) any expenses of the parties arising in consequence of the change.

- (2) An agreement under this section may provide—

- (a) for the transfer or retention of any property, rights and liabilities, with or without conditions, and for the joint use of any property;

- (b) for the making of payments in respect of any property, rights or liabilities transferred or retained, or of such joint use, and in respect of the remuneration or compensation payable to any person;

- (c) for the making of any such payment by way of a capital sum or terminable annuity.

- (3) Where the parties cannot reach agreement on any matter, the matter is to be referred to the arbitration of a single arbitrator agreed on by the parties or, failing such agreement, appointed by the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) The arbitrator's award may provide for any matter for which an agreement under this section may provide.

- (5) Any sum which requires to be paid by a public body may be paid—

- (a) out of the fund or rate from which the general expenses of the public body are paid, or

- (b) out of such other fund or rate as the public body may determine.

- (6) In this section, “*public body*” has the same meaning as it has in section 40(6).

### CHAPTER 6 — OTHER PROVISION RELEVANT TO LOCAL AUTHORITY BOUNDARIES

#### Police area change

##### 45

- (1) This section applies where the Commission is conducting a review of one or more principal areas under section 23.

- (2) In addition to the changes which may be recommended under section 23(3) the Commission may, in connection with any principal area boundary change, recommend such changes to a police area or areas (including changes resulting in a reduction or increase in the number of police areas) as it considers appropriate.

- (3) The Secretary of State may, after receiving a report containing recommendations from the Commission in relation to a review conducted under section 23—

- (a) by order made by statutory instrument implement any recommendations for change to a police area, with or without modification,

- (b) if proposing to implement the recommendations with modification, direct the Commission to carry out a further review under section 23 of such principal areas affected by the recommendations as may be specified in the direction, or

- (c) decide to take no action in respect of the recommendations.

- (4) The Commission must comply with a direction under subsection (3)(b).

- (5) An order made under this section may include—

- (a) provision for the police and crime commissioner for a police area affected by the order to become the police and crime commissioner for a police area resulting from the order,

- (b) provision for the holding of an election for the police and crime commissioner for any police area resulting from the order,

- (c) such incidental, consequential, supplemental or transitional provision as the Secretary of State considers necessary or expedient.

- (6) An order including provision of the kind mentioned in subsection (5)(b) may require the election in question to be held before the alteration of the police areas takes effect.

- (7) An order under this section may apply or modify any enactment or charter.

- (8) An order made under this section may not provide for a principal area to be divided between 2 or more police areas.

- (9) No order may be made under this section until the expiry of a period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the Secretary of State receives the recommendations.

#### Extent of seaward boundaries

##### 46

- (1) Any part of the sea-shore to the low water-mark forms part of the community or communities which it adjoins in proportion to the extent of the common boundary.

- (2) Every accretion from the sea (whether natural or artificial) forms part of the community or communities which it adjoins in proportion to the extent of the common boundary.

- (3) Every accretion or part of the sea-shore forming a part of a community under this section also forms part of the principal area and preserved county in which the community is situated.

#### Boundary change following alteration of water-course

##### 47

- (1) This section applies where a water-course forms a boundary line between two or more local government areas.

- (2) If, in the exercise of any power conferred by the Water Resources Act 1991 (c. 57), the Land Drainage Act 1991 (c. 59) or any other enactment, the water-course is altered in any way which affects its character as a boundary line, the person under whose authority the alteration is made must as soon as reasonably practicable give the Welsh Ministers notice of the alteration.

- (3) The Welsh Ministers may, by order, vary a boundary line to which a notice given under subsection (2) relates by substituting a new boundary line (whether or not consisting wholly or in part of the line of the water-course as altered) for so much of that boundary line as, before the alteration, lay along the line of the water-course.

- (4) The Welsh Ministers must consult the Commission before making an order under subsection (3).

- (5) The Welsh Ministers must, in such manner as they consider appropriate, publish notice of any order made under this section.

- (6) For the purposes of this section, a reference to local government area includes a reference to a preserved county.

### CHAPTER 7 — MISCELLANEOUS PROVISION

#### Directions and guidance relating to Part 3

##### 48

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may give the Commission directions relating to the exercise of its functions under this Part.

- (2) In particular, the Welsh Ministers may direct the Commission—

- (a) to conduct a review under this Part (regardless of whether in the circumstances the Commission would have the power, or would be subject to a duty, to conduct the review),

- (aa) where the Commission has made recommendations or proposals to the Welsh Ministers, to conduct a further review under this Part,

- (ab) to stop conducting a review under this Part,

- (b) not to conduct a review under this Part during a period specified in the direction,

- (c) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (d) to conduct the reviews required under section 29(1) in a different order from that proposed by the Commission in any current programme for electoral arrangements reviews prepared in accordance that section,

- (e) to have regard to such particular matters as may be specified in the direction when conducting a review.

- (3) Subsection (1) does not limit the general power of direction under section 14.

- (4) The Welsh Ministers may give a principal council directions relating to the exercise of its functions under this Part.

- (5) In particular, the Welsh Ministers may direct a principal council ...—

- (a) to conduct a review under section 25 or 31,

- (aa) to stop conducting a review under section 25 or 31,

- (ab) not to conduct a review under section 25 or 31 during a period specified in the direction,

- (b) to have regard to such particular matters as may be specified in the direction when conducting a review.

- (6) A principal council must comply with a direction given by the Welsh Ministers under subsection (4).

- (7) Directions under this section may relate to a particular review, a type of review or to all reviews.

- (8) But before making a direction under this section relating to the review of a principal area or its electoral arrangements (or reviews of principal areas or their electoral arrangements generally), the Welsh Ministers must consult the Commission and any association appearing to them to be representative of local authorities.

- (9) In exercising any function under this Part, the Commission or a principal council must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers.

#### Local inquiries

##### 49

- (1) The Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council, may cause a local inquiry to be held with respect to any review carried out by it under this Part.

- (2) The Welsh Ministers, the Commission or, as the case may be, a principal council may cause a local inquiry to be held in respect of a draft order prepared under section 43.

- (3) A person appointed to hold an inquiry may by summons require a person to attend at a time and place specified in the summons—

- (a) to give evidence, or

- (b) to produce any information relating to any matter in question which is held by, or is under the control of, the person.

- (4) A person appointed to hold an inquiry may take evidence on oath and for that purpose may administer oaths.

- (5) A person required to attend under subsection (3) must be paid any reasonably incurred expenses.

- (6) Despite subsection (3)(b), a person may not be required to produce the title (or any instrument relating to the title) of any land which does not belong to a local authority.

- (7) A person commits an offence if the person—

- (a) refuses or deliberately fails to comply with a requirement of a summons served on the person under subsection (3),

- (b) deliberately alters, suppresses, conceals or destroys any information which the person is required to produce under this section.

- (8) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (7) is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or to both.

- (9) The persons or body causing an inquiry to be held under this section may make orders as to—

- (a) the costs of the parties at the inquiry, and

- (b) the parties by whom the costs are to be paid.

- (10) An order under subsection (9) may be made a rule of the High Court on the application of a party named in the order.

## PART 4 — REVIEWS OF PUBLIC BODY MEMBERSHIP

#### Reviews of qualifying public bodies

##### 50

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may direct the Commission to conduct a review of the membership of one or more specified qualifying public bodies.

- (2) Where the Commission has conducted a review under this section it must report to the Welsh Ministers on whether it recommends that changes should be made to the public body's membership.

- (3) A direction under this section may, in particular, require the Commission to—

- (a) consider the number of members of the body (or bodies),

- (b) consider any categories of membership (including lay membership) and the number of members in each category,

- (c) consider the attributes, experiences, skills or qualifications which members should possess,

- (d) consider such other matters relevant to the membership as may be specified,

- (e) follow such process as may be specified when conducting a review,

- (f) prepare its report in such form and manner as may be specified,

- (g) have regard to such factors or matters as may be specified.

- (4) Before giving a direction under this section the Welsh Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

- (5) For the purposes of this section a body is a “qualifying public body” if—

- (a) it is not a local authority,

- (b) its membership is required under any enactment to include—

- (i) a member of a local authority, or

- (ii) a person appointed by a local authority, and

- (c) it exercises functions that—

- (i) have been conferred by an Act or Measure of the National Assembly for Wales, or

- (ii) could be conferred by an Act of the National Assembly for Wales.

- (6) This section does not limit the general power of direction under section 14.

## PART 5 — OTHER CHANGES TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT

### Presiding members

#### Presiding member of principal council

##### 51

- (1) The 1972 Act is amended as follows.

- (2) After section 24 (vice-chairman) insert—

> (24A)
>   (1) A principal council may determine to have a presiding member.
>   (2) A presiding member is elected by the principal council from among the councillors.
>   (3) The principal council may determine—
>     (a) the functions of the presiding member, and
>     (b) the term of office of the member (subject to the limits in subsection (6)).
>   (4) The functions of the presiding member may, in particular, include any function of the chairman of the principal council in relation to its meetings and proceedings.
>   (5) A member of the executive of a principal council may not be elected as its presiding member.
>   (6) A presiding member is to continue in office until the occurrence of—
>     (a) the presiding member's resignation or disqualification,
>     (b) a successor becoming entitled to act as presiding member,
>     (c) the principal council determining not to have an office of presiding member, or
>     (d) an ordinary council election under section 26.
> (24B)
>   (1) The section applies where a principal council have determined to have a presiding member.
>   (2) The principal council must appoint a member of the council to act as deputy to the presiding member (“the deputy presiding member”).
>   (3) A member of the executive of a principal council may not be appointed as the deputy presiding member.
>   (4) A deputy presiding member is to continue in office until the occurrence of—
>     (a) the deputy presiding member's resignation or disqualification,
>     (b) a successor becoming entitled to act as deputy presiding member,
>     (c) the council determining not to have an office of presiding member, or
>     (d) an ordinary council election under section 26.
>   (5) A deputy presiding member may do anything authorised or required to be done by the presiding member.

.

- (3) After section 25A insert—

> (25B)
>   (1) This section applies where—
>     (a) a principal council have determined to have a presiding member under section 24A, and
>     (b) the chairman of the council is not entitled to the style of “mayor” or “maer”.
>   (2) The chairman of the council is entitled to the style of “civic chair” or “cadeirydd dinesig”.
>   (3) The vice-chairman of the council is entitled to the style of ”civic vice-chair” or “dirprwy gadeirydd dinesig”.

.

- (4) In section 80(1) (disqualification for election and holding office as member of local authority), in paragraph (a), for “or deputy chairman” substitute “ , deputy chairman, presiding member or deputy presiding member ”.

- (5) In section 83(1) (declaration of acceptance of office) after “vice-chairman,” insert “ presiding member, deputy presiding member, ”.

### Private Bills

#### Promoting private Bills

##### 52

- (1) A principal council may, in accordance with this section, promote a private Bill—

- (a) in Parliament;

- (b) in the National Assembly for Wales.

- (2) A principal council may promote a Bill only if satisfied that it is expedient to do so.

- (3) But a principal council may not promote a Bill (whether under this section or otherwise) for—

- (a) the formation, alteration or abolition of any local government area,

- (b) the alteration of the status of any local government area,

- (c) the alteration of the electoral arrangements for any local government area,

- (d) the formation, alteration or abolition of executive arrangements, or

- (e) the alteration of arrangements for electing an elected mayor.

- (4) A resolution of a principal council to promote a Bill under this section must—

- (a) be passed at a meeting of the principal council by a majority of the total number of its members, and

- (b) be confirmed by a like majority at a further such meeting held as soon as may be after the expiration of 14 days after the Bill has been deposited in Parliament or, as the case may be, introduced in the National Assembly for Wales.

- (5) A principal council must not hold a meeting under subsection (4) unless the conditions in subsection (6) have been met in relation to that meeting.

- (6) The conditions are—

- (a) that the principal council has given notice of the meeting and its purpose in at least one newspaper circulating in its area, and

- (b) that a period of 30 days, beginning with the day after notice was given, has expired.

- (7) The condition mentioned in subsection (6)(a) is in addition to the notice requirements which ordinarily apply to meetings of a principal council.

- (8) Where a resolution is not confirmed under subsection (4)(b), the principal council must take all necessary steps to withdraw the Bill.

- (9) In this section, “*executive arrangements*” has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Local Government Act 2000 (c. 22).

#### Opposing private Bills

##### 53

- (1) A local authority may, in accordance with this section, oppose a private Bill—

- (a) in Parliament;

- (b) in the National Assembly for Wales.

- (2) A local authority may oppose a Bill only if satisfied that it is expedient to do so.

- (3) A resolution of a local authority to oppose a Bill under this section must be passed at a meeting of the authority by a majority of the total number of the members of the authority.

- (4) A local authority must not hold a meeting under subsection (3) unless the conditions in subsection (5) have been met in relation to that meeting.

- (5) The conditions are—

- (a) that the local authority has given notice of the meeting and its purpose in at least one newspaper circulating in its area, and

- (b) that a period of 10 days, beginning with the day after notice was given, has expired.

- (6) The condition mentioned in subsection (5)(a) is in addition to the notice requirements which ordinarily apply to meetings of a local authority.

#### Restriction on payments in relation to promoting or opposing Bills

##### 54

A local authority may not make a payment to any of its members for acting as counsel or agent in promoting or opposing a Bill under section 52 or 53.

### Access to information

#### Community council websites

##### 55

- (1) A community council must make available electronically—

- (a) information on how to contact it and, if different, its clerk including—

- (i) a telephone number;

- (ii) a postal address;

- (iii) an email address;

- (b) information about each of its members, including—

- (i) the member's name;

- (ii) how the member may be contacted;

- (iii) the member's party affiliation (if any);

- (iv) the ward which the member represents (where relevant);

- (v) any office of the council held by the member;

- (vi) any committee of the council to which the member belongs;

- (c) the minutes of the proceedings of the council's meetings and (in so far as is reasonably practicable) any documents which are referred to in the minutes;

- (d) any audited statement of the council's accounts.

- (2) Nothing in this section authorises or requires a community council to make available any information that it is prevented from disclosing under any enactment.

- (3) In carrying out its duties under subsection (1), a community council must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) The requirement to make available the information listed in subsection (1)(c) and (d) relates only to information produced on or after the coming into force of this section.

#### Requirement to give public notices electronically

##### 56

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Meetings and proceedings of communities

##### 57

In Schedule 12 to the 1972 Act (meetings and proceedings of local authorities)—

- (a) in paragraph 26(2)—

- (i) in paragraph (a), after “be” where it first occurs insert “ published electronically and ”,

- (ii) after paragraph (a) insert—

> (aa) any documents relating to the business to be transacted at the meeting must be published electronically (in so far as reasonably practicable),

,

- (b) after paragraph 26(2) insert—

> (2A) The duty of a community council under sub-paragraph (2)(aa) to publish documents relating to the meeting does not apply where—
>   (a) the documents relate to business which in the opinion of the council is likely to be transacted in private, or
>   (b) the disclosure of such documents would be contrary to any enactment.

,

- (c) in paragraph 30B—

- (i) for sub-paragraph (3) substitute—

> (3) The notice must be given—
>   (a) in writing (but not in an electronic form), or
>   (b) in an electronic form which meets the technical requirements set by the principal council under paragraph 30C.

,

- (ii) in sub-paragraph (7), after “principal council” insert ”or community council”,

- (iii) also in sub-paragraph (7), for “council” where it second occurs substitute “ principal council ”,

- (d) in paragraph 30C—

- (i) for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

> (1) For the purposes of paragraph 30B(1), each community council and principal council must provide a facility for notices to be given in electronic form (“electronic notices”).

,

- (ii) in sub-paragraph (2), for “The council must set” insert “ A principal council must set for its area ”,

- (e) in paragraph 30E(7), after paragraph (a) insert—

> (aa) by publishing the notice electronically, and

.

#### Registers of members’ interests

##### 58

- (1) Section 81 of the Local Government Act 2000 (c.22) (disclosure and registration of members' interests) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (6)—

- (a) the words from “copies” to the end become paragraph (a), and

- (b) after that paragraph, insert—

> (b) the register mentioned in paragraph (a) is published electronically.

.

- (3) In subsection (7), after paragraph (a)(ii), insert—

> (iii) states that the register is available to be viewed electronically, and
> (iv) specifies how to access the electronic version,

.

- (4) After subsection (7), insert—

> (7A) For the purposes of this section—
>   (a) section 83(13) does not apply, and
>   (b) in relation to a relevant authority which is a community council, the references in this section to a monitoring officer are to be read as references to the proper officer of that council (within the meaning of section 270(3) of the Local Government Act 1972).

.

### Remote attendance at meetings

#### Remote attendance at meetings of principal councils

##### 59

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Democratic services committees

#### Democratic services committees

##### 60

- (1) After section 11 of the 2011 Measure (local authorities to appoint democratic services committees) insert—

> (11A)
>   (1) The democratic services committee of a local authority may, at the request of the authority, review any matter relevant to—
>     (a) the support and advice available to members of that authority, and
>     (b) the terms and conditions of office of those members.
>   (2) A democratic services committee must make reports and recommendations to the authority following a review.
>   (3) It is for a democratic services committee to determine how to exercise its functions under this section.

- (2) In section 19 (reports and recommendations by democratic services committees), after “11(1)(c)” insert “ or 11A(2). ”.

### Audit committees

#### Audit committees

##### 61

In section 82 of the 2011 Measure (membership), after subsection (6) insert—

> (7) An audit committee is to be treated as a body to which section 15 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (duty to allocate seats to political groups) applies.

.

### Independent Remuneration Panel for Wales

#### Functions relating to payments to members

##### 62

In section 142 of the 2011 Measure (functions relating to payments to members)—

- (a) in subsection (4), after “proportion” insert “ or specified number ”,

- (b) after subsection (5) insert—

> (5A) The number specified by the Panel in accordance with subsection (4), expressed as a proportion of the total number of members of an authority, may not exceed fifty per cent unless the consent of the Welsh Ministers has been obtained.

.

#### Functions relating to salaries of heads of paid service

##### 63

- (1) After section 143 of the 2011 Measure insert—

> (143A)
>   (1) The Panel may make recommendations to a qualifying relevant authority about—
>     (a) any policy in the authority's pay policy statement which relates to the salary of the authority's head of paid service;
>     (b) any proposed change to the salary of the authority's head of paid service.
>   (2) A qualifying relevant authority must have regard to any recommendation received from the Panel when performing its functions under section 38 or 39 of the Localism Act 2011 (c. 20).
>   (3) A qualifying relevant authority must, before making a change to the salary of its head of paid service which is not commensurate with a change to the salaries of the authority's other staff—
>     (a) consult the Panel about the proposed change, and
>     (b) have regard to any recommendation received from the Panel when deciding whether or not to proceed with making the change.
>   (4) A qualifying relevant authority must provide the Panel with such information as the Panel may reasonably require in connection with the exercise of its functions under this section.
>   (5) The Panel may publish any recommendations it makes under this section.
>   (6) The Panel must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers when exercising its functions under this section.
>   (7) In this section—
>     - “*head of paid service*” (“”) means a head of paid service designated under section 4(1) of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989;
>     - “*pay policy statement*” (“”) means a pay policy statement produced by a relevant authority (within the meaning of section 43(1) of the Localism Act 2011) under section 38 of that Act;
>     - “*qualifying relevant authority*” (“”) means a relevant authority (within the meaning of this Part) which is required to produce a pay policy statement;
>     - “*salary*” (“”) includes, in the case of a head of paid service engaged by a qualifying relevant authority under a contract for services, payments by the authority to the head of paid service for those services.

.

- (2) In the Part heading of Part 8 of the 2011 Measure, omit “MEMBERS:”.

- (3) In section 112 of the 1972 Act (appointment of staff), in subsection (2A), after “statement)” insert “ and in relation to a local authority in Wales, section 143A of the Local Government (Wales) Measure 2011 (functions of the Independent Remuneration Panel in relation to salaries of heads of paid service). ”.

#### Relevant authorities

##### 64

In section 144 of the 2011 Measure (relevant authorities, members etc.)—

- (a) in subsection (2), after paragraph (d) insert—

> (e) a body specified as a relevant authority in an order made by the Welsh Ministers.

,

- (b) after subsection (5) insert—

> (6) A body may only be specified as a relevant authority if—
>   (a) the Welsh Ministers exercise functions in respect of it,
>   (b) it exercises relevant functions, and
>   (c) its membership includes at least one member of an authority described in subsection (2)(a) to (d).
> (7) A “relevant function” is—
>   (a) a function conferred by an Act or Measure of the National Assembly for Wales, or
>   (b) a function that could be conferred by an Act of the National Assembly for Wales.
> (8) Sections 142(4), 143, 147(3)(b) and 155 do not apply in relation to a relevant authority described in subsection (2)(e).

.

#### Subsequent annual reports

##### 65

In section 147 of the 2011 Measure (subsequent annual reports)—

- (a) in subsection (2)(a), for “31 December” substitute “ 28 February ”,

- (b) in subsection (4), after “(e)” insert “ (including by specifying a number under section 142(4)) ”,

- (c) for subsection (9) substitute—

> (9) The provisions of an annual or supplementary report under this section come into force on the date specified for that purpose in the report.
> (10) Where subsection (11) applies, the report may specify that a qualifying provision is to be treated as having been brought into force up to 3 months earlier than the date of publication of the report.
> (11) This subsection applies where a supplementary report contains a qualifying provision.
> (12) A “qualifying provision” is a provision making a variation for the purposes of subsection (3)(a), (b) or (c) of section 146.

.

#### Consultation on draft reports

##### 66

In section 148 of the 2011 Measure (consultation on draft reports)—

- (a) in subsection (1), “or a supplementary report” is repealed, and

- (b) after that subsection insert—

> (1A) The Panel must not publish a supplementary report—
>   (a) before the end of the period of four weeks beginning with the day on which it sends a draft of the report in accordance with section 147, or
>   (b) later than the end of the period of eight weeks beginning with the day on which it sends a draft of the report in accordance with section 147.

.

#### Publicity requirements in reports

##### 67

In section 151 of the 2011 Measure (publicity requirements in reports)—

- (a) in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

> (c) about other payments made to members of relevant authorities from other public bodies.

.

- (b) after subsection (2) insert—

> (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a “public body” is—
>   (a) a local health board,
>   (b) a police and crime panel,
>   (c) a relevant authority,
>   (d) a body designated as a public body in an order made by the Welsh Ministers.

.

### Joint standards committees

#### Joint standards committees

##### 68

- (1) The Local Government Act 2000 (c.22) is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 53 (standards committees)—

- (a) in subsection (1), for “(referred to in this Part as a standards committee)” substitute “ or, with one or more other relevant authorities, a joint committee ”,

- (b) after subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) In this Part, a reference to a “*standards committee*” is a reference to a committee or a joint committee established under subsection (1).

,

- (c) in subsection (11)—

- (i) in the opening words, for “National Assembly for Wales” substitute “ Welsh Ministers ”,

- (ii) in paragraph (a), after “authority” insert “ or authorities ”,

- (iii) after paragraph (d) insert—

> (da) about establishing a standards committee which is a joint committee (including, in particular, provision about any restrictions on the number or types of relevant authority that may establish a joint committee),

,

- (iv) in paragraph (e), for “such” substitute “ standards ”,

- (d) after subsection (12) insert—

> (13) A relevant authority which is considering establishing a joint committee must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers about establishing joint committees and the circumstances in which it is appropriate to do so.

.

- (3) In section 54 (functions of standards committees)—

- (a) in subsection (5), for “National Assembly for Wales” substitute “ Welsh Ministers ”,

- (b) after subsection (5) insert—

> (5A) Regulations made under subsection (5) may modify any provision of this Part, or any other enactment relating to a standards committee or to any functions of a standards committee, in relation to cases where a function of a standards committee is exercisable by a joint committee.
> (5B) In subsection (5A) “*enactment*” includes an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978 (c. 30)), whenever passed or made.

,

- (c) for subsection (7) substitute—

> (7) A standards committee must, in exercising any of its functions, have regard to any relevant guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers.

.

- (4) In section 106 (Wales)—

- (a) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (b) in subsection (6), after “section 21A(13)(b)” insert “ or regulations made under section 53(11) or (subject to subsection (6A)) section 54(5) ”,

- (c) after subsection (6) insert—

> (6A) Where a statutory instrument contains regulations made under section 54(5) which include provision adding to, replacing or omitting any part of the text of an Act of Parliament or a Measure or Act of the National Assembly for Wales, the instrument may not be made unless a draft of it has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the National Assembly for Wales.

.

#### Referral of cases relating to conduct

##### 69

- (1) The Local Government Act 2000 is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 73 (matters referred to monitoring officers)—

- (a) in subsection (2)—

- (i) in paragraph (b), after “authority” where it second occurs insert “ , or to the standards committee of another relevant authority, ”,

- (ii) after paragraph (b), insert—

> (ba) enabling a standards committee of a relevant authority to refer a report or recommendations made by its monitoring officer to the standards committee of another relevant authority,

,

- (b) for paragraph (c) substitute—

> (c) enabling a standards committee of a relevant authority to consider any report or recommendations made or, as the case may be, referred to it by—
>   (i) a monitoring officer of a relevant authority, or
>   (ii) the standards committee of another relevant authority.
> (ca) the procedure to be followed by a standards committee as respects a report or recommendation made or referred to it,

,

- (c) in paragraph (d), for “the authority” substitute “ a relevant authority ”,

- (d) in subsection (4)—

- (i) in paragraph (a), omit “of the authority,”, and

- (ii) in paragraph (b), after “the authority” insert “ of which they are a member ”.

- (3) In section 81 (disclosure and registration of members' interests)—

- (a) in subsection (4), after “standards committee” insert “ , or by the standards committee of another relevant authority, ”,

- (b) in subsection (5)—

- (i) the words from “circumstances” to the end become paragraph (a), and

- (ii) after that paragraph, insert—

> (b) procedure to be followed for the granting of dispensations.

.

## PART 6 — MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISION

#### Ancillary provision

##### 70

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may by order make such incidental, consequential, supplemental, transitional, transitory or savings provision as they consider appropriate for the purposes of, or in connection with, giving full effect to, any provision made by or under this Act.

- (2) An order under this section may modify this or any other enactment.

#### Orders and regulations

##### 71

- (1) Any power of the Welsh Ministers to make an order or regulations under this Act (other than an order under section 47) is exercisable by statutory instrument and includes power to—

- (a) make incidental, consequential, supplemental, transitional, transitory or savings provision as the Welsh Ministers consider necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or in connection with, this Act,

- (b) modify any enactment (including this Act), and

- (c) make different provision for different purposes and areas.

- (2) A statutory instrument which contains—

- (a) an order under section 34(3)(e) or 70(1),

- (b) an order under section 37(1) which includes provision altering the area of a principal council or a preserved county ..., or

- (c) regulations under section 41(1),

is to be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the National Assembly for Wales.

- (3) Despite subsection (2), any statutory instrument containing an order or regulations made under this Act which includes provision adding to, replacing or omitting any part of the text of an Act of Parliament or a Measure or Act of the National Assembly for Wales is not to be made until a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the National Assembly for Wales.

- (4) This section does not apply to an order made under section 45 or 75 , or regulations made under section 49J.

#### Interpretation

##### 72

- (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

- “*1972 Act*” means the Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70),

- “*2011 Measure*” means the Local Government (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 4),

- “community meeting” is a meeting of the local government electors for a community convened under section 27(1) of the 1972 Act,

- “*enactment*” includes an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation,

- “*local authority*” means a principal council or a community council,

- “*local government area*” means a principal area or a community,

- “*member of a UK legislature*” means—a Member of the Senedd;a member of the House of Commons;a member of the House of Lords;a member of the Scottish Parliament;a member of the Northern Ireland Assembly,

- “*modify*”, in relation to an enactment, includes amend or repeal,

- “*principal area*” means a county or a county borough in Wales,

- “*principal council*” means a county council or a county borough council in Wales.

- “*registered political party*” means a party registered under Part 2 of the [Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (c.‍ 41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2000/41),

- “special adviser‍” means a special adviser within the meaning of—Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act [2010 (c. 25)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2010/25), orsection 1 of the Civil Service (Special Advisers) Act (Northern Ireland) [2013 (c. 8 (N.I.))](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2013/8).

- (2) Schedule 3 (index of defined expressions) has effect.

#### Minor and consequential amendments and repeals

##### 73

- (1) Schedule 1 (which makes minor and consequential amendments) has effect.

- (2) Schedule 2 (which contains repeals of legislation) has effect.

#### Ongoing reviews and other savings

##### 74

- (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) Any regulations made under section 67 of the 1972 Act (regulations in connection with implementation of recommendations and proposals under Part 4 of that Act) which are in force at the date of commencement of this section are to have effect in relation to orders under Part 3 of this Act (orders implementing changes following reviews) as if those orders were made under Part 4 of the 1972 Act.

- (4) Subsection (3) has effect only in so far as any regulations made under section 41 of this Act do not make provision to the contrary.

#### Commencement

##### 75

- (1) The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent—

- (a) section 1;

- (b) section 70;

- (c) section 71;

- (d) section 72 (and Schedule 3);

- (e) this section;

- (f) section 76.

- (2) The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of 2 months beginning with the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent—

- (a) Part 2;

- (b) Part 3;

- (c) Part 4;

- (d) Sections 51 to 54, 59 to 62, 64 to 67, 73 (and Schedules 1 and 2) and section 74.

- (3) The remaining provisions of this Act come into force on a day appointed by order made by statutory instrument made by the Welsh Ministers.

- (4) An order under this section—

- (a) may appoint different days for different purposes, and

- (b) may include such transitional, transitory or savings provision as the Welsh Ministers consider necessary or expedient.

#### Short title

##### 76

The short title of this Act is the Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru etc. Act 2013.

## SCHEDULE 1

#### Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)

##### 1

- (1) The 1972 Act is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 25(2) (term of office and retirement of councillors), after “Part IV of this Act” insert “ or Part 3 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013 (anaw 4) ”.

- (3) In section 30 (restriction on community applications during and after reviews)—

- (a) in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

> (ba) during the period of two years beginning with the coming into force of an order relating to the community under Part 3 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013 consequent on recommendations made under that Part by the Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales

,

- (b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (4) In section 31(2) (supplementary provision about community council orders), for the words from “68” to the end substitute “ 44 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013 is to apply as if the order were made under Part 3 of that Act. ”.

- (5) In section 70 (restriction on promotion of Bills for changing local government areas, etc.) —

- (a) in subsection (1), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”,

- (b) in subsection (3), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (6) In section 73(1) (alteration of local boundaries consequent on alteration of water-course), after “local government” insert “ in England ”.

- (7) In section 74 (change of name of county, district or London borough)—

- (a) in subsection (3)(a), for “the Secretary of State” substitute “ the relevant Minister ”,

- (b) in subsection (3)(b), for “the Secretary of State” substitute “ the relevant Minister ”,

- (c) after subsection (3) insert—

> (3A) Where any change of name under this section relates to a Welsh principal area, notice must also be sent to the Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales.

.

- (d) after subsection (7) insert—

> (8) In this section the “relevant Minister” is—
>   (a) in relation to the change of name of a Welsh principal area, the Welsh Ministers, and
>   (b) in relation to any other change of name, the Secretary of State.

.

- (8) In section 76(2)(a) (change of name of a community), for “Secretary of State,” substitute “ Welsh Ministers, to the Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales, ”.

- (9) In section 246(9) (preservation of powers, privileges and rights of existing cities or boroughs), for “Part IV of this Act” substitute “ Part 3 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013 ”.

- (10) In section 239(1) (power to promote or oppose local or personal Bills)—

- (a) for “local authority, other than a parish or community council” substitute “ local authority in England, other than a parish council ”, and

- (b) after “local authority” where it second occurs, insert “ in England ”.

#### Police Act 1996 (c. 16)

##### 2

In section 1(2)(a) of the Police Act 1996 (police areas), for “section 58 of the Local Government Act 1972,” substitute “ section 45 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013, ”.

#### Public Services Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2005 (c. 10)

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 1)

##### 4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (c. 13)

##### 5

In section 72(3) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (amendment of police areas: term of office of commissioner), for paragraph (c) substitute—

> (c) an order under section 45 of the Local Government (Democracy) (Wales) Act 2013 (anaw 4) (recommendations for changes to police areas) which alters the boundary of any police area in Wales;

.

#### Local Government Byelaws (Wales) Act 2012 (anaw 2)

##### 6

In paragraph 9 of Schedule 2 to the Local Government Byelaws (Wales) Act 2012 (minor and consequential amendments), in sub-paragraph (4), for “236A (alternative procedure for certain byelaws)” substitute “ 236B (revocation of byelaws) ”.

## SCHEDULE 2

The enactments mentioned in the first column are repealed to the extent set out in the second column.

## SCHEDULE 3

The expressions listed in the first column are defined by or (as the case may be) are to be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of this Act listed in the second column in relation to those expressions.

#### Overview

#### Opposing private Bills

#### Duties of principal councils in relation to area

#### Reviews of qualifying public bodies

#### Remote attendance at meetings of principal councils

#### Functions relating to salaries of heads of paid service

#### Publicity requirements in reports

#### Audit committees

#### Functions relating to salaries of heads of paid service

#### Relevant authorities

#### Referral of cases relating to conduct

#### Referral of cases relating to conduct

#### Ancillary provision

### Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)

### Police Act 1996 (c. 16)

### ...

### ...

### Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (c. 13)

### Local Government Byelaws (Wales) Act 2012 (anaw 2)

The enactments mentioned in the first column are repealed to the extent set out in the second column.

The expressions listed in the first column are defined by or (as the case may be) are to be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of this Act listed in the second column in relation to those expressions.

## Editorial notes

[^key-73ac7cf239a9fd7a68a7891529af0668]: [S. 63](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/63) in force at 1.4.2014 by [S.I. 2014/380](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2014/380), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2014/380/article/2)

[^key-220712fc9b44503dbb3e9f2f17b587e7]: [S. 55](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/55) in force at 1.5.2015 by [S.I. 2015/1182](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182/article/2/a)

[^key-b79b1598dfd93632a5db39ee44f565e5]: S. 57 in force at 1.5.2015 by [S.I. 2015/1182](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182), [art. 2(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182/article/2/c)

[^key-307e29ffb4e940abe949ea4dd9c45468]: [S. 58](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/58) in force at 1.5.2015 by [S.I. 2015/1182](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182), [art. 2(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182/article/2/d)

[^key-8a78510551407a65aefb7e4d9465a1ee]: [S. 68](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/68) in force at 1.5.2015 by [S.I. 2015/1182](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182), [art. 2(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182/article/2/e)

[^key-6d1320aa4ea473c83c3e5e200becd393]: [S. 69](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/69) in force at 1.5.2015 by [S.I. 2015/1182](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182), [art. 2(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2015/1182/article/2/f)

[^key-b654c3144d89c48bbf57009445e35ec4]: S. 29(2) excluded (26.11.2015) by [Local Government (Wales) Act 2015 (anaw 6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6), [ss. 21(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6/section/21/5), [46(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6/section/46/2)

[^key-c5cec0be229cf7d19217c79023cd86a3]: [S. 29(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/29/3): power to amend (26.11.2015) conferred by [Local Government (Wales) Act 2015 (anaw 6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6), [ss. 24](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6/section/24), [46(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2015/6/section/46/2)

[^key-b1505746aca5cbeb0d743c3465901f42]: [S. 29(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/29/3): power to amend conferred (21.1.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 138(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/138/6), [175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2)

[^key-f7f5985f4f440ac786189c842eea6083]: [S. 29(8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/29/8) excluded (21.1.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [s. 175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2), [Sch. 1 para. 8(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/schedule/1/paragraph/8/5)

[^key-57012ca325b1319df1fc550712e4a0ea]: [S. 23(4)(e)(ii)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/23/4/e/ii) omitted (21.1.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 150(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/150/2/a), [175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2)

[^key-bcc0695d6a0f7056aad1a019f44cae99]: [S. 23(4)(e)(iii)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/23/4/e/iii) omitted (21.1.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 150(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/150/2/a), [175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2)

[^key-49c3bbe0f35d0cdebb7b352405f29c8d]: [S. 43(12A)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/43/12A) inserted (21.1.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [s. 175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2), [Sch. 1 para. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/schedule/1/paragraph/14)

[^key-7ad15928bce2853f601e3b2a7816c3be]: Words in [s. 71(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/71/2/b) omitted (21.1.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 150(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/150/2/d), [175(1)(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/1/f)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/2)

[^key-d88b6c28c2b3ad2eb3292cfb6b4da020]: [S. 34(3)(ba)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/34/3/ba) inserted (20.3.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 166(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/166/4), [175(3)(r)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/3/r)

[^key-d83ae78f93d54f7c1e98682bb6df6aff]: Words in [s. 4(3)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/3/c) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/6), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-5066c4313de896c3e498a0b21f343819]: Words in [s. 4(3)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/3/d) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/6), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-47008378cfd82f11b3b044495130182f]: Words in [s. 11(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/11/2/c) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/6), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-f3d46aa3d34a9b3457b9f6a04ce2d958]: Words in [s. 11(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/11/2/d) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/6), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-03a185e8ef1e02f90169070c1bafea07]: [S. 8(2A)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/2A) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/3), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-166cb77d2fc442d19dae54a9dc5e0d08]: [S. 8(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/4)[(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/5) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/5), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-963bed75e3d129870c945143a57452f2]: Word in [s. 8(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/2) substituted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/2/a), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-5e3ce3311b0020f4a0d1199237d3678c]: Word in [s. 8(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/2) substituted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/2/b), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-64ccb7296c16afec513f55b1e25ce67e]: Words in [s. 8(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/3) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 163(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/163/4), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/a)

[^key-b75bde0b00543fd747a47cf9089673f2]: Words in [s. 44(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/44/1) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 150(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/150/2/b), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/297](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/297), [reg. 2(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/297/regulation/2/d)

[^key-2ebbbb0059960a6571d940bc515339fb]: [S. 48(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/2/c) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 150(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/150/2/c), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/297](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/297), [reg. 2(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/297/regulation/2/d)

[^key-a47e16fd4f560a5d004abe5a570881ae]: [S. 48(2)(aa)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/2/aa)[(ab)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/2/ab) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/2/b), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-171b5d5dc30bd5d57a29c6ff630324a5]: Words in [s. 48(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/2/a) substituted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/2/a), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-0fdcafc1cb1f10d58be6ef00ea5f5d40]: Words in [s. 48(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/2/b) substituted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/2/c), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-f79f2b1393db701018f5941245bb1bb3]: Word in [s. 48(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/5) omitted (1.4.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(3)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/3/a), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-27b0901879c89bd2763ab4d38e707659]: Word in [s. 48(5)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/5/a) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(3)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/3/b), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-15ddb0aed6214f811d3d298faa3bf42b]: [S. 48(5)(aa)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/5/aa)[(ab)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/5/ab) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(3)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/3/c), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-020a91d6a23cf4a2c8232a7679b4be1a]: Word in [s. 48(5)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/48/5/b) inserted (1.4.2021) by [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 164(3)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/164/3/d), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [reg. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/regulation/3/b)

[^key-34828ed5b870378c27d27b845988b325]: S. 56 omitted (coming into force in accordance with reg. 1(2) of the amending S.I.) by virtue of [The Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations 2021 (S.I. 2021/356)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/356), [regs. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/356/regulation/1/2), [4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/356/regulation/4) (with [regs. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/356/regulation/10), [11](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/356/regulation/11))

[^key-cfabceacee7cc58d1f047d0103aaf19c]: [S. 59](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/59) omitted (1.5.2021) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [s. 175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7), [Sch. 4 para. 23(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/schedule/4/paragraph/23/3); [S.I. 2021/354](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/354), [reg. 2(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/354/regulation/2/c)

[^key-9e4a9f06c8054e30b57f1aadba5317f7]: [S. 68(4)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/68/4/a) omitted (5.5.2022) by virtue of [Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1), [ss. 62(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/62/5), [175(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/1/section/175/7); [S.I. 2021/231](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231), [art. 6(l)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/231/article/6/l)

[^key-bdc42ca27ca3ca3eb3b44bd4f04331f6]: Short Title substituted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 11(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/11/1), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-eaf352224693ca356afff9cd35b8526c]: [Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/part/2) heading substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 44(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/44/3)

[^key-7219a4575732b23eb75591b8e618aa62]: [S. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/2) heading substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 12(1)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/12/1/c), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-bea84dedab497aa60e9b10e26cea5125]: [Sch. 1 para. 3 and cross-heading](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/1/crossheading/public-services-ombudsman-wales-act-2005-c-10) omitted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 44(4)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/44/4/b)

[^key-6c593101490c1fa24c4c835d3ee59f01]: [Sch. 1 para. 4 and cross-heading](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/1/crossheading/welsh-language-wales-measure-2011-nawm-1) omitted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 44(4)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/44/4/b)

[^key-52e9e091375ce8c53fd87184742feb3e]: Words in [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/3) Table 2 inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(4)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/4/a), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-5e10c6ae42e394d33c0a4943fbf334e2]: Words in [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/3) Table 2 inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(4)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/4/b), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-18b613e53d3c996b5f9bf3bba70427cf]: Words in [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/3) Table 2 inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(4)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/4/c), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-0e5229d82c576827dddb8d841d0b0f55]: [S. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/1/2) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 44(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/44/2)

[^key-09ca4ee69007650bc4ce33a34122e7f8]: [S. 2(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/2/3) inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 12(1)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/12/1/b), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-2415eeece6a05773dcfa3a9dfc366bba]: [S. 2(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/2/2) omitted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 12(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/12/1/a), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-0ed046f55a657b4ffe6fdc8e746631f4]: Words in [s. 4(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/3) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/1/a), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-0e12eadd7b09ea78406f112a85b3e876]: [S. 4(1)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/1/c) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/13), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-05f264e457267e3e2ad340afdc6a5bbc]: [S. 4(3)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/3/a) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(1)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/1/b), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-83d4f2f2a66aae49a088e3065d71a70e]: [S. 4(3)(ba)-(bc)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/4/3/ba) substituted for s. 4(3)(b) (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(1)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/1/c), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-7d417b9bf4bd7b22d275ad8a44575b59]: [S. 6(1A)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/6/1A) inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/15), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-51ae4f23ad208dad8936d8688e8a75c4]: [S. 8(4)(ba)-(bc)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/4/ba) substituted for s. 8(4)(b) (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/2/b), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-0646cba866d0add15c5e51fcb2ac70d6]: [S. 8(4)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/8/4/a) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/2/a), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-f386d1522879165dbc9a942b73845593]: [S. 11(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/11/1) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 16(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/16/1/a), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-d0604bb2c1217db069464be70540e70b]: Words in [s. 11(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/11/2/a) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 16(1)(b)(i)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/16/1/b/i), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-c9fa1295ba13cc7311ea74980156988a]: [S. 11(2)(ba)-(bc)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/11/2/ba) substituted for (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 16(1)(b)(iii)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/16/1/b/iii), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^M_F_bea1f73d-d2df-4895-9ec9-a615d7a41ce1]: S. 11(2)(a) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 16(1)(b)(ii)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/16/1/b/ii), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-f5ef6f403539dabcd73fa19180ef072c]: Words in [s. 13(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/13/1) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 16(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/16/2), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-c9636c8cf771ffb39ef0616e54f4a637]: Words in [s. 43(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/43/1) inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 5(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/5/2)

[^key-430ce8587e7b9a04fb14c5e4c2eb7d45]: Words in [s. 72(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/72/1) inserted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 14(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/14/3), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-0b755fac1ec60561ff11244799126a09]: [S. 74(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/74/1)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/74/2) omitted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 5(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/5/3)

[^key-e10b699baac0c2da2d6cc86114f820d5]: Words in [s. 76](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/76) substituted (25.6.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [ss. 11(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/11/3), [25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a)

[^key-b99e4af9f701af6ececf420448a546f5]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(3)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/1/paragraph/1/3/b) omitted (25.6.2024) by virtue of [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/1/a), [Sch. 1 para. 44(4)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/1/paragraph/44/4/a)

[^key-f14967f4e7e783795db23833bc6fb250]: [Pt. 3A](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/part/3A) inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/1) (with [Sch. 3 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/3))

[^key-68bc5f182b638ce8cb8aa9313569410c]: Words in [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/3) Table 2 inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(6)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/6/a)

[^key-37792a541f6575b6af5b879a004faa42]: Words in [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/schedule/3) Table 2 inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(6)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/6/b)

[^key-3ee2fe6a34273df04be3f68d007bf2bb]: [S. 1(3A)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/1/3A) inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/2)

[^key-407233761d21e63e8de40a8f12a98280]: Words in [s. 13(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/13/1) substituted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/3)

[^key-d2f8f2c071c1214c93c47f778ab18b49]: [S. 14(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/14/3) inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/4)

[^key-00d61af9497bd18fb0441fb65e7365e8]: Words in [s. 71(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/anaw/2013/4/section/71/4) inserted (24.8.2024) by [Senedd Cymru (Members and Elections) Act 2024 (asc 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4), [s. 25(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/section/25/2/c), [Sch. 3 para. 2(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2024/4/schedule/3/paragraph/2/5)

#### Consultation on draft reports

#### Referral of cases relating to conduct

#### Ancillary provision

#### Democracy and Boundary Commission Cymru

#### Functions relating to payments to members

#### Subsequent annual reports

#### Orders and regulations

## PART 3A — SENEDD CONSTITUENCY BOUNDARY REVIEWS

##### 49A

- (1) The Commission must conduct a Senedd constituency boundary review once in every review period.

- (2) A Senedd constituency boundary review is a review of the Senedd constituencies for the purpose of determining whether those boundaries should change in order to give effect to the rules set out in section 49C.

- (3) If in the course of a review the Commission determines that the boundaries of a Senedd constituency should change, the Commission must also determine—

- (a) what the names of the affected constituencies should be;

- (b) whether each affected constituency should be a county constituency or a borough constituency.

- (4) But if in the course of a review the Commission determines that, while the boundaries of a Senedd constituency should not change, the name of the constituency or its designation as a county constituency or a borough constituency should change, it may determine—

- (a) what the name of the constituency should be;

- (b) whether it should be a county constituency or a borough constituency.

- (5) For the purpose of subsection (1), “*review period*” means—

- (a) the period beginning with 1 April 2025 and ending with 30 November 2028,

- (b) the period of 8 years beginning with 1 December 2028, and

- (c) each subsequent period of 8 years.

##### 49B

- (1) As soon as reasonably practicable after commencing a Senedd constituency boundary review, the Commission must publish a notice—

- (a) stating that the Commission has commenced a review, and

- (b) specifying the date on which the review commenced.

- (2) In this Part, “*review date*” means the date specified in the notice under subsection (1)(b).

##### 49C

- (1) The electorate for each Senedd constituency must be—

- (a) no less than 90% of the electoral quota, and

- (b) no more than 110% of the electoral quota.

- (2) When considering during a Senedd constituency boundary review whether there should be changes to the Senedd constituencies, and what those changes should be—

- (a) the Commission may have regard to—

- (i) local government boundaries that exist or are prospective on the review date;

- (ii) special geographical considerations, including in particular the size, shape and accessibility of a proposed or existing Senedd constituency;

- (iii) any local ties (including local ties connected to the use of the Welsh language) that would be broken by such changes; but

- (b) in any event the Commission must—

- (i) seek to minimise the amount of change to the Senedd constituencies that exist on the review date, and

- (ii) have regard to the inconveniences caused by making changes to the Senedd constituencies.

- (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)—

- (a) the electorate is the total number of local government electors, and

- (b) the electoral quota is the electorate of Wales divided by 16 (which is the number of Senedd constituencies), and

for the purposes of paragraph (a), a local government elector is a person registered in the relevant version of the register of local government electors at an address within a Senedd constituency.

- (4) The relevant version of the register of local government electors is the version that is, on the review date, the most recent version published under section 13(1)(a) of the [Representation of the People Act 1983 (c. ‍2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/2).

- (5) In the case of a local government boundary that is prospective on the review date, it is that boundary (rather than any existing boundary that it replaces) that must be taken into account under subsection (2)(a)(i).

- (6) A local government boundary is “prospective” on the review date if, on that date—

- (a) it is specified in a provision of—

- (i) primary legislation, or

- (ii) an instrument made under primary legislation, and

- (b) the provision specifying the boundary is not yet in force for all purposes.

- (7) In subsection (6), “*primary legislation*” means—

- (a) an Act enacted under Part 4 of the Government of Wales Act [2006 (c. 32)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/32);

- (b) a Measure enacted under Part 3 of that Act;

- (c) an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.

##### 49D

- (1) Each Senedd constituency must have‍‍ a‍ single name for the purposes of identifying the constituency in communication through Welsh and English, unless the Commission considers this would be unacceptable (in which case the constituency may have different names for the purposes of identifying it in communication through Welsh and English).

- (2) Before making its initial report (see section 49E) the Commission must, if it intends to make a proposal relating to the name of a Senedd constituency—

- (a) consult the Welsh Language Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name, and

- (b) consider its proposal having regard to any representations from the Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name.

- (3) A requirement under this Part to set out the name or proposed name of a Senedd constituency in a report is, where the Commission considers the constituency should have different names for the purposes of identifying it in communication through Welsh and English, a requirement to set out both names—

- (a) in the Welsh language version of the report, and

- (b) in the English language version of the report.

##### 49E

- (1) After taking the steps in sections 49B(1) and 49D(2), the Commission must make an initial report setting out—

- (a) the Commission’s proposals for change to—

- (i) the boundaries of the Senedd constituencies;

- (ii) the names of the Senedd constituencies, or

- (b) if it does not consider any change appropriate, a statement to that effect.

- (2) The Commission must—

- (a) publish the initial report,

- (b) inform any person it considers appropriate of how to access the report,

- (c) invite representations on the report, and

- (d) notify any person it considers appropriate of the first period for representations.

- (3) During the first period for representations the Commission must consult the Welsh Language Commissioner.

- (4) The first period for representations is a period of eight weeks, beginning with the date on which the initial report is published.

##### 49F

- (1) At the end of the first period for representations the Commission must publish a document setting out any representations received during that period (including any representations on the initial report made by the Welsh Language Commissioner when consulted under section 49E(3)).

- (2) The Commission must also—

- (a) inform any person it considers appropriate of how to access the document published under subsection (1),

- (b) invite representations in respect of the representations set out in the document published under subsection (1),

- (c) notify any person it considers appropriate of the second period for representations, and

- (d) publish information about the times and places at which public hearings under section 49G will be held and, where hearings are to be held partly in person and partly through the use of remote facilities, specify instructions on how to make representations using remote facilities.

- (3) The second period for representations is a period of six weeks, beginning with the date on which the document is published under subsection (1).

- (4) In subsection (2)(d), “*remote facilities*” means any equipment or other facility that enables people who are not in the place where the hearing is being held to make representations at the hearing.

##### 49G

- (1) During the second period for representations, the Commission must hold at least two but no more than five public hearings to enable representations to be made about its proposals.

- (2) The public hearings must between them cover the whole of Wales.

- (3) A public hearing must be completed within two days.

- (4) If a hearing is to be held partly through the use of remote facilities (within the meaning given in section 49F(4)), the remote facilities must enable the people making representations at the hearing but who are not in the place where the hearing is being held to speak to and be heard by (whether or not it enables those people to see and be seen by)—

- (a) each other, and

- (b) people at the place where the hearing is being held.

- (5) The Commission must appoint a person to chair each hearing (“the chair”).

- (6) The chair must determine the procedure that is to govern that hearing.

- (7) The chair must make arrangements for a public hearing to begin with an explanation of—

- (a) the proposals with which the hearing is concerned;

- (b) how representations about the proposals may be made.

- (8) The chair must allow representations to be made—

- (a) by each political party that is registered under Part 2 of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act [2000 (c. 41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2000/41) and either—

- (i) has at least one Member of the Senedd, or

- (ii) received at least 10% of the votes cast in the most recent general election;

- (b) by any other person considered by the chair to have an interest in any of the proposals with which the hearing is concerned (subject to subsection (9)(c)).

- (9) The chair may—

- (a) determine the order in which representations are made;

- (b) restrict the amount of time allowed for representations and need not allow the same amount to each person;

- (c) if necessary because of shortage of time, determine which of the persons mentioned in subsection (8)(b) are not allowed to make representations.

- (10) The chair may put questions, or allow questions to be put, to a person making representations at the hearing.

- (11) If questions are allowed to be put, the chair may regulate the manner of questioning or restrict the number of questions a person may ask.

##### 49H

- (1) At the end of the second period for representations the Commission must—

- (a) consider its proposals having regard to the representations made during the first and second periods for representations, and

- (b) if‍, having considered its proposals, it intends to make a proposal that was not set out in the initial report relating to the name of a Senedd constituency—

- (i) consult the Welsh Language Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name, and

- (ii) have regard to any representations made by the Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name.

- (2) After taking the steps in subsection (1), the Commission must make a second report—‍

- (a) setting out—

- (i) the Commission’s proposals for change to the boundaries and names of the Senedd constituencies, or

- (ii) if the Commission does not consider any change appropriate, a statement to that effect;

- (b) specifying details of any changes the Commission has made to the proposals set out in the initial report, and an explanation of why those changes have been made.

- (3) The Commission must—

- (a) publish the second report,

- (b) publish a document—

- (i) containing records of the public hearings held under section 49G, and

- (ii) setting out any representations (of the kind described in section 49F(2)(b)) received during the second period for representations,

- (c) inform any person it considers appropriate of how to access the report and the document published under paragraph (b),

- (d) invite representations—‍

- (i) on the report‍,

- (ii) in respect of any representations made during the public hearings, and

- (iii) in respect of any representations (of the kind described in section 49F(2)(b)) received during the second period for representations, and

- (e) notify any person it considers appropriate of the final period for representations.

- (4) During the final period for representations the Commission must consult the Welsh Language Commissioner.

- (5) The final period for representations is a period of four weeks, beginning with the date on which the second report is published.

- (6) At the end of the final period for representations the Commission must—

- (a) publish a document setting out any representations received during that period (including any representations made by the Welsh Language Commissioner, when consulted under subsection (4), on the second report and on the representations mentioned in subsection (3)(d)(ii) and (iii)),

- (b) consider its proposals having regard to those representations, and

- (c) if‍, having considered its proposals, it intends to make a proposal that was not set out in the second report relating to the name of a Senedd constituency—

- (i) consult the Welsh Language Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name, and

- (ii) have regard to any representations made by the Commissioner on the orthography of the proposed name.

##### 49I

- (1) Before 1 December 2028, and before 1 December every eighth year after that, the Commission must—

- (a) make and publish a final report, and

- (b) send it to the Welsh Ministers.

- (2) The final report must—

- (a) either—

- (i) set out the details of any changes that are required to be made to the Senedd constituencies, or

- (ii) state that no alteration is required to be made to the Senedd constituencies, and

- (b) specify details of any changes the Commission has made to the proposals set out in the second report, and explain why those changes have been made.

- (3) If changes are required to be made to the boundaries of Senedd constituencies, the final report must set out—

- (a) the boundaries of all the constituencies for which Members of the Senedd are to be returned‍,

- (b) the names of all those‍ constituencies‍, and‍

- (c) whether each‍ constituency‍ is ‍a county constituency or borough constituency.

- (4) If the boundaries of a Senedd constituency are not to be changed but a change is required to either or both—

- (a) the name of the constituency;

- (b) its designation as a county constituency or borough constituency,

the final report must set out the change.

- (5) A failure by the Commission to comply with a deadline in subsection‍ (1) does not invalidate a final report.

- (6) As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving a final report, the Welsh Ministers must lay it before Senedd Cymru.

##### 49J

- (1) Where a final report sets out changes that are required to be made to the Senedd constituencies, the Welsh Ministers must make regulations giving effect to the determinations in the Commission’s final report—

- (a) as soon as reasonably practicable after laying the report before Senedd Cymru, and

- (b) in any event, unless there are exceptional circumstances, before the end of the period of‍ four months beginning with the date the report is laid before the Senedd.

- (2) Where regulations are not made before the end of the period mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the Welsh Ministers must lay a statement before Senedd Cymru setting out the exceptional circumstances.

- (3) A statement under subsection (2) must be laid before the end of the period of‍ four months beginning with the date the final report is laid before Senedd Cymru.

- (4) Further statements setting out the exceptional circumstances must be laid before Senedd Cymru before the end of each subsequent period of four weeks beginning with the day on which the previous statement was laid, until the regulations are made.

- (5) Regulations under this section may make provision for any matters which the Welsh Ministers consider are incidental to, or consequential on, the determinations in the final report.

- (6) Regulations under this section must be made by statutory instrument.

- (7) A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section must be laid before Senedd Cymru as soon as reasonably practicable after the regulations are made.

- (8) The coming into force of the regulations does not affect the return of a Member of the Senedd to Senedd Cymru, or the constitution of Senedd Cymru, until the dissolution of the Senedd in connection with—

- (a) the next ordinary general election, or

- (b) an extraordinary general election, the poll for which is held—

- (i) during the period of one month ending with the day before the day on which the poll for the next ordinary general election would have been held under section 3(1) of the Government of Wales Act [2006 (c. 32)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/32), disregarding paragraphs (a) and (b) of that subsection, or

- (ii) on the day on which the poll for the next ordinary general election would have been held under section 3(1) of the Government of Wales Act 2006, disregarding paragraphs (a) and (b) of that subsection.

##### 49K

- (1) This section applies where—

- (a) the Welsh Ministers have laid a final report before Senedd Cymru under section 49I(6),

- (b) the report sets out changes that are required to be made to the Senedd constituencies,

- (c) the Commission considers that the report needs to be modified to correct an error or errors in respect of any of the matters mentioned in section 49I(3) or (4), and

- (d) regulations have not yet been made under section 49J.

- (2) The Commission may send a statement to the Welsh Ministers specifying—

- (a) the modifications of the report, and

- (b) the reasons for those modifications.

- (3) The Commission must publish a statement sent to the Welsh Ministers under subsection (2).

- (4) As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving a statement, the Welsh Ministers must lay it before Senedd Cymru.

- (5) Where a statement has been sent to the Welsh Ministers, the regulations made under section 49J must give effect to the final report with the modifications specified in the statement.

##### 49L

- (1) In this Part—

- “*general election*” (“**etholiad cyffredinol**”) means an ordinary general election or an extraordinary general election held under Part 1 of the Government of Wales Act [2006 (c. 32)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/32);

- “*local government boundaries*” (“**ffiniau llywodraeth leol**”) are the boundaries of counties, county boroughs, electoral wards, communities and community wards in Wales;

- “*remote facilities*” (“**cyfleusterau o bell**”) has the meaning given by section 49F(4);

- “*review date*” (“**dyddiad yr adolygiad**”) has the meaning given by section 49B(2);

- “*Senedd constituency*” (“**etholaeth Senedd**”) means a constituency provided for in regulations made under section 49J.

- (2) Where this Part imposes a duty on the Commission to publish a notice, report or other document, the notice, report or other document must be published—

- (a) on the Commission’s website, and

- (b) in such other manner as the Commission considers appropriate.
