---
title: "Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021"
identifier: "asc-2021-4"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-senedd-cymru"
publication_date: "2021-04-29"
last_updated: "2024-09-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-wls"
long_title: "An Act of Senedd Cymru to establish a new framework for a curriculum for pupils of compulsory school age at maintained schools and pupil referral units, for children of compulsory school age for whom education is otherwise arranged by local authorities, for pupils at maintained nursery schools and for certain other children for whom nursery education is provided; to make provision about progression and assessment in connection with a curriculum for those pupils and children; to make provision ab"
last_modified_tna: "2025-09-23"
type_code: "asc"
year: "2021"
number: "4"
document_main_type: "WelshParliamentAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780348113464"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2025-09-01"
number_of_provisions: "181"
stats_total_paragraphs: "181"
stats_body_paragraphs: "85"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "96"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021

## PART 1 — BASIC CONCEPTS AND KEY DOCUMENTS

#### Introduction

##### 1

- (1) This Part sets out basic concepts that have effect in relation to a curriculum for any of the following—

- (a) registered pupils at maintained schools (except those over compulsory school age) and at maintained nursery schools;

- (b) children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided;

- (c) children for whom education is provided under arrangements made by a local authority in Wales under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56).

- (2) This Part also includes provision about key documents that support a curriculum of that kind.

- (3) In this Part references to a curriculum are to a curriculum of that kind; and references to pupils and children are to the pupils and children referred to in subsection (1).

#### The four purposes

##### 2

- (1) The four purposes of a curriculum are—

- To enable pupils and children to develop as ambitious, capable learners, ready to learn throughout their lives;

- To enable pupils and children to develop as enterprising, creative contributors, ready to play a full part in life and work;

- To enable pupils and children to develop as ethical, informed citizens of Wales and the world;

- To enable pupils and children to develop as healthy, confident individuals, ready to live fulfilling lives as valued members of society.

- (2) References in this Act to the four purposes are to those purposes.

#### The areas of learning and experience

##### 3

- (1) The areas of learning and experience for a curriculum are—

- Expressive Arts

- Health and Well-being

- Humanities

- Languages, Literacy and Communication

- Mathematics and Numeracy

- Science and Technology.

- (2) Within the areas of learning and experience, the following are mandatory elements—

- English

- Relationships and Sexuality Education

- Religion, Values and Ethics

- Welsh.

- (3) But English is not to be treated as a mandatory element, for the purposes of this Act, for a curriculum within subsection (4).

- (4) A curriculum is within this subsection if it is—

- (a) a curriculum for registered pupils at a school who have not completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attain the age of 7;

- (b) a curriculum for funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (c) a curriculum for education provided under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (exceptional provision of education at pupil referral units or elsewhere: Wales) for pupils or children who have not attained the age of 7.

- (5) References in this Act to the areas of learning and experience are to the areas listed in subsection (1).

- (6) References in this Act to the mandatory elements are to be interpreted in accordance with this section.

#### The mandatory cross-curricular skills

##### 4

- (1) The mandatory cross-curricular skills for a curriculum are—

- Digital Competence

- Literacy

- Numeracy.

- (2) References in this Act to the mandatory cross-curricular skills are to the skills listed in subsection (1).

#### Power to amend sections 3 and 4

##### 5

Regulations may amend sections 3 and 4.

#### The What Matters Code

##### 6

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must issue a code (the “What Matters Code”) that sets out key concepts for each area of learning and experience.

- (2) A curriculum does not encompass an area of learning and experience unless it encompasses those concepts as set out in the What Matters Code.

- (3) Teaching and learning does not encompass an area of learning and experience unless it encompasses those concepts as set out in the What Matters Code.

- (4) The Welsh Ministers—

- (a) must keep the What Matters Code under review, and

- (b) may revise it.

- (5) For further provision about the What Matters Code, see section 76.

#### The Progression Code

##### 7

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must issue a code (the “Progression Code”) that sets out the way in which a curriculum is to make provision for progression by pupils and children.

- (2) A curriculum does not make provision for appropriate progression unless it accords with the Progression Code.

- (3) Teaching and learning does not make provision for appropriate progression unless it accords with the Progression Code.

- (4) The Welsh Ministers—

- (a) must keep the Progression Code under review, and

- (b) may revise it.

- (5) For further provision about the Progression Code, see section 76.

#### The RSE Code

##### 8

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must issue a code (the “RSE Code”) setting out themes and matters to be encompassed by the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education.

- (2) A curriculum does not encompass the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education unless it accords with the provision in the RSE Code.

- (3) Teaching and learning does not encompass the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education unless it accords with the provision in the RSE Code.

- (4) For further provision about the RSE Code, see section 77.

## PART 2 — CURRICULUM IN MAINTAINED SCHOOLS, MAINTAINED NURSERY SCHOOLS AND FUNDED NON-MAINTAINED NURSERY EDUCATION

### CHAPTER 1 — CURRICULUM DESIGN AND ADOPTION

### General

#### Introduction and interpretation

##### 9

- (1) This Chapter makes provision about the design and adoption of a curriculum for any of the following—

- (a) registered pupils at a maintained school, except those over compulsory school age;

- (b) registered pupils at a maintained nursery school;

- (c) children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided.

- (2) References in this Chapter to a school are to—

- (a) a maintained school, or

- (b) a maintained nursery school.

- (3) In this Chapter—

- (a) references to pupils, in relation to a school, are to registered pupils at the school, except those over compulsory school age;

- (b) references to children, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to children for whom that education is provided;

- (c) references to the adopted curriculum, in relation to a school, are to the curriculum adopted under section 11 by the head teacher and governing body of the school (and if that curriculum is revised under section 12, to the curriculum as revised);

- (d) references to the adopted curriculum, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to the curriculum adopted under section 15 by the provider of the education (and if that curriculum is revised under section 16, to the curriculum as revised).

### Maintained schools and maintained nursery schools

#### Curriculum design

##### 10

- (1) The head teacher of a school must design a curriculum for the school's pupils.

- (2) That curriculum must comply with the requirements in sections 20 to 24, and any requirement imposed under section 25.

#### Curriculum adoption

##### 11

- (1) The head teacher and governing body of a school must—

- (a) adopt the curriculum designed under section 10 as the curriculum for the school's pupils, and

- (b) publish a summary of the adopted curriculum.

- (2) But a curriculum may not be adopted under this section unless it complies with the requirements in sections 20 to 24, and any requirement imposed under section 25.

#### Curriculum review and revision

##### 12

- (1) The head teacher and governing body of a school must—

- (a) keep the adopted curriculum under review, and

- (b) ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements in sections 20 to 24, and any requirement imposed under section 25.

- (2) In considering whether the adopted curriculum continues to comply with the requirements referred to in subsection (1)(b), the head teacher and governing body must have regard to information derived from any assessment arrangements implemented by them under regulations made under section 56.

- (3) The head teacher and governing body of a school must revise the adopted curriculum if they consider it necessary to do so to ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements referred to in subsection (1)(b).

- (4) The head teacher and governing body of a school may also revise the adopted curriculum if they consider it appropriate to do so at any time.

- (5) If the head teacher and governing body of a school revise the adopted curriculum, they must publish a summary of the revised curriculum.

### Funded non-maintained nursery education

#### Welsh Ministers’ duty to publish a curriculum

##### 13

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must publish a curriculum (the “section 13 curriculum”) that they consider suitable for children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided.

- (2) The section 13 curriculum must comply with the requirements in sections 20 to 24 ....

#### Review and revision of curriculum published by Welsh Ministers

##### 14

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must—

- (a) keep the section 13 curriculum under review, and

- (b) ensure that it continues to comply with sections 20 to 24 ....

- (2) The Welsh Ministers must revise the section 13 curriculum if they consider it necessary to do so to ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements referred to in subsection (1)(b).

- (3) The Welsh Ministers may also revise the section 13 curriculum if they consider it appropriate to do so at any time.

- (4) If the Welsh Ministers revise the section 13 curriculum, they must publish the revised curriculum.

#### Curriculum adoption

##### 15

- (1) A provider of funded non-maintained nursery education must—

- (a) adopt a curriculum for children for whom that education is provided (whether the section 13 curriculum or another curriculum the provider considers suitable), and

- (b) publish a summary of the adopted curriculum.

- (2) But a curriculum may not be adopted under this section unless it complies with the requirements in sections 20 to 24 ....

#### Curriculum review and revision

##### 16

- (1) A provider of funded non-maintained nursery education must—

- (a) keep the adopted curriculum under review, and

- (b) ensure that it continues to comply with sections 20 to 24 ....

- (2) In considering whether the adopted curriculum continues to comply with the requirements referred to in subsection (1)(b), the provider must have regard to information derived from any assessment arrangements implemented by the provider under regulations made under section 56.

- (3) The provider must revise the adopted curriculum if the provider considers it necessary to do so to ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements referred to in subsection (1)(b).

- (4) The provider may also revise the adopted curriculum if the provider considers it appropriate to do so at any time.

- (5) If the provider has adopted the section 13 curriculum, and the Welsh Ministers revise that curriculum under section 14, the provider must consider whether it is appropriate to revise the adopted curriculum under subsection (4) so as to reflect the revisions made under section 14.

- (6) If the provider revises the adopted curriculum, the provider must publish a summary of the revised curriculum.

### Supplementary provision

#### Power to make supplementary provision about curriculum adoption and revision

##### 17

Regulations may make provision about—

- (a) steps to be taken before a curriculum is adopted under this Part (including provision about steps to be taken in order to determine whether a proposed curriculum is suitable for adoption);

- (b) the date by which a curriculum must be adopted under this Part;

- (c) additional circumstances in which an adopted curriculum must be revised.

#### Power to make supplementary provision about curriculum summaries

##### 18

Regulations may make provision—

- (a) about information that is to be included in a summary of an adopted curriculum published under this Part;

- (b) about the publication of a summary of an adopted curriculum (including provision about how publication must take place, and the date by which it must take place).

### CHAPTER 2 — CURRICULUM REQUIREMENTS

### General

#### Introduction

##### 19

- (1) This Chapter sets out curriculum requirements.

- (2) References in this Chapter to a curriculum are to a curriculum for any of the following—

- (a) registered pupils at a maintained school, except those over school age;

- (b) registered pupils at a maintained nursery school;

- (c) children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided.

- (3) In this Chapter—

- (a) references to pupils are to registered pupils at a maintained school or maintained nursery school, except those over compulsory school age;

- (b) references to children, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to children for whom that education is provided.

### Curriculum requirements

#### The four purposes

##### 20

The curriculum must enable pupils, or children, to develop in the ways described in the four purposes.

#### Progression

##### 21

The curriculum must provide for appropriate progression.

#### Suitability

##### 22

The curriculum must be suitable for pupils, or children, of differing ages, abilities and aptitudes.

#### Breadth and balance

##### 23

The curriculum must be broad and balanced.

#### Areas of learning and experience and cross-curricular skills

##### 24

- (1) The curriculum must make provision for teaching and learning that—

- (a) encompasses each of the areas of learning and experience, including the mandatory elements within the areas of learning and experience, and

- (b) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (2) The provision for teaching and learning encompassing the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education must be developmentally appropriate for pupils, or children.

- (3) The provision for teaching and learning encompassing the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics must accord with Part 1 of Schedule 1, except where subsection (4) applies.

- (4) This subsection applies where the provision for teaching and learning is made—

- (a) for pupils in a class in which the majority of the pupils are below compulsory school age at the beginning of the school year;

- (b) for children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided.

- (5) If the curriculum applies to pupils who have completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attained the age of 14, it must offer those pupils a choice of teaching and learning within each area of learning and experience.

#### Power to impose further curriculum requirements

##### 25

- (1) Regulations may specify further requirements with which a curriculum for a maintained school must comply so far as it applies to pupils within subsection (2).

- (2) The pupils are those who have completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attained the age of 14, but are still of compulsory school age.

- (3) The regulations may, among other things, specify provision—

- (a) that must be made in a curriculum;

- (b) that must not be made in a curriculum.

- (4) The regulations may make provision by reference to courses of study (for example, so as to require a curriculum to make provision for a minimum number of courses of study, or for courses of study specified in the regulations).

- (5) In this section, “*course of study*” means a course of education or training that—

- (a) leads to a form of qualification or set of forms of qualification approved under Part 4 of the Qualifications Wales Act 2015 (anaw 5) or designated under Part 5 of that Act, or

- (b) is designated by the Welsh Ministers under section 34(8) of that Act.

### CHAPTER 3 — CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION

### General

#### Introduction and interpretation

##### 26

- (1) This Chapter makes provision about the implementation of a curriculum for any of the following—

- (a) registered pupils at a maintained school, except those over compulsory school age;

- (b) registered pupils at a maintained nursery school;

- (c) children for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided.

- (2) Chapter 4 sets out exceptions to the curriculum implementation duties in this Chapter.

- (3) References in this Chapter and in Chapter 4 to a school are to—

- (a) a maintained school, or

- (b) a maintained nursery school.

- (4) In this Chapter and in Chapter 4—

- (a) references to pupils, in relation to a school, are to registered pupils at the school, except those over compulsory school age;

- (b) references to children, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to children for whom that education is provided;

- (c) references to the adopted curriculum, in relation to a school, are to the curriculum adopted under section 11 by the head teacher and governing body of the school (and if that curriculum is revised under section 12, to the curriculum as revised);

- (d) references to the adopted curriculum, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to the curriculum adopted under section 15 by the provider of the education (and if that curriculum is revised under section 16, to the curriculum as revised).

### Maintained schools and maintained nursery schools

#### Duty to ensure implementation of adopted curriculum

##### 27

- (1) The head teacher of a school must ensure that the adopted curriculum is implemented for the school's pupils in accordance with sections 28, 29 and 30.

- (2) The governing body of a school must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that the adopted curriculum is implemented for the school's pupils in accordance with sections 28, 29 and 30.

#### General implementation requirements

##### 28

The adopted curriculum must be implemented in a way that—

- (a) enables each pupil to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secures teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for each pupil,

- (c) is suitable for each pupil's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) takes account of each pupil's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secures broad and balanced teaching and learning for each pupil.

#### Further implementation requirements for pupils aged 3 to 14

##### 29

- (1) The adopted curriculum must be implemented in accordance with subsection (2) for pupils who have not yet completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attain the age of 14.

- (2) The adopted curriculum must be implemented in a way that secures teaching and learning for each pupil that—

- (a) encompasses the areas of learning and experience (including the mandatory elements within those areas), and

- (b) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (3) The teaching and learning secured under subsection (2)—

- (a) in respect of the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education, must be suitable for the pupil's stage of development, and

- (b) in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics, must accord with Part 2 of Schedule 1, except where subsection (4) applies.

- (4) This subsection applies where the teaching and learning is for pupils in a class in which the majority of the pupils are below compulsory school age at the beginning of the school year.

#### Further implementation requirements for pupils aged 14 to 16

##### 30

- (1) The adopted curriculum must be implemented in accordance with subsection (2) for pupils who have completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attained the age of 14.

- (2) The adopted curriculum must be implemented in a way that—

- (a) secures teaching and learning for each pupil that encompasses the mandatory elements within the areas of learning and experience, and

- (b) secures other teaching and learning for each pupil in each area of learning and experience.

- (3) The teaching and learning secured under subsection (2) must develop the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (4) The teaching and learning secured under subsection (2) must include—

- (a) teaching and learning in respect of any provision made in the curriculum, so far as it applies to the pupil, by virtue of regulations made under section 25, and

- (b) the teaching and learning chosen by the pupil by virtue of section 24.

- (5) For an exception to the duty to secure the teaching and learning chosen by the pupil, see section 31.

- (6) The teaching and learning secured under subsection (2)—

- (a) in respect of the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education, must be suitable for the pupil's stage of development, and

- (b) in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics, must accord with Part 2 of Schedule 1.

#### Power to disapply duty to implement pupil choice

##### 31

- (1) This section applies to the teaching and learning chosen by a pupil by virtue of section 24.

- (2) If the head teacher of a maintained school is satisfied that a relevant ground applies, the head teacher may determine that the duty to secure the teaching and learning does not apply.

- (3) In the case of a determination made before the pupil begins the relevant school year, the relevant grounds are that—

- (a) the teaching and learning is not suitable for the pupil, due to the pupil's level of educational attainment;

- (b) it is not reasonably practicable to secure the teaching and learning for the pupil, due to other choices made by the pupil by virtue of section 24;

- (c) the amount of time likely to be spent travelling to the place at which the teaching is likely to be delivered would be detrimental to the pupil's education;

- (d) disproportionate expenditure would be incurred if the teaching and learning were to be secured for the pupil;

- (e) the pupil or another person's health or safety would be placed unacceptably at risk if the teaching and learning were to be secured for the pupil.

- (4) In the case of a determination made after the pupil has begun the relevant school year, the relevant grounds are that—

- (a) disproportionate expenditure would be incurred if the teaching and learning were to continue to be secured for the pupil;

- (b) the pupil's or another person's health or safety would be placed unacceptably at risk if the teaching and learning were to continue to be secured for the pupil.

- (5) In subsections (3) and (4), the “relevant school year” is the school year in which the majority of the pupils in the pupil's class will attain the age of 15.

- (6) Regulations may amend subsections (3) and (4).

#### Power to disapply duty to implement pupil choice: supplementary

##### 32

- (1) A head teacher who makes a determination under section 31 must give the information described in subsection (2) to—

- (a) the pupil to whom the determination relates, and

- (b) the pupil's parent.

- (2) The information is—

- (a) the fact that the determination has been made,

- (b) the effect of the determination,

- (c) the head teacher's reasons for making the determination,

- (d) information about the teaching and learning that will be secured for the pupil in place of the teaching and learning in respect of which the determination has been made, and

- (e) information about the right to request a review, or make an appeal, under section 33.

- (3) The information must be given in writing.

- (4) The duty in subsection (1)(a) does not apply if the head teacher considers that the pupil in question does not have the capacity to understand—

- (a) the information that would be given, or

- (b) what it means to exercise the rights conferred by section 33.

- (5) Regulations may make further provision in connection with determinations under section 31.

#### Reviews and appeals relating to pupil choice

##### 33

- (1) A pupil or parent who is given information about a determination made by a head teacher under section 31—

- (a) may require the head teacher to review the determination, and

- (b) if dissatisfied with the head teacher's decision on the review, may appeal to the governing body of the school against that decision.

- (2) On a review, the head teacher—

- (a) may confirm, vary or revoke the determination, and

- (b) must give written notice of that decision to—

- (i) the pupil,

- (ii) the pupil's parent, and

- (iii) the governing body.

- (3) But subsection (2)(b)(i) does not apply if the head teacher considers that the pupil does not have the capacity to understand—

- (a) the information that would be given, or

- (b) what it means to exercise the right conferred by subsection (1)(b).

- (4) On an appeal, the governing body—

- (a) may confirm the head teacher's decision on the review or direct the head teacher to take the action that it considers appropriate, and

- (b) must give written notice of its decision to—

- (i) the pupil,

- (ii) the pupil's parent, and

- (iii) the head teacher.

- (5) But subsection (4)(b)(i) does not apply if the governing body considers that the pupil does not have the capacity to understand the information that would be given.

- (6) The head teacher must comply with a direction given under subsection (4)(a).

- (7) The head teacher and governing body of a school within subsection (8) must publish information setting out a procedure for reviews and appeals under this section.

- (8) A school is within this subsection if the adopted curriculum applies to pupils who have completed the school year in which the majority of the pupils in their class attained the age of 14.

### Funded non-maintained nursery education

#### Duty to ensure implementation of adopted curriculum

##### 34

- (1) A provider of funded non-maintained nursery education must ensure that the adopted curriculum is implemented for children in accordance with sections 35 and 36.

- (2) A local authority that secures funded non-maintained nursery education must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that the adopted curriculum is implemented in accordance with sections 35 and 36 for children for whom that education is provided.

#### General implementation requirements

##### 35

The adopted curriculum must be implemented in a way that—

- (a) enables each child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secures teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for each child,

- (c) is suitable for each child's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) takes account of each child's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secures broad and balanced teaching and learning for each child.

#### Requirements relating to areas of learning and experience and cross-curricular skills

##### 36

- (1) The adopted curriculum must be implemented in a way that secures teaching and learning for each child that—

- (a) encompasses the areas of learning and experience (including the mandatory elements within those areas), and

- (b) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (2) Teaching and learning secured for a child under subsection (1) in respect of the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education must be suitable for the child's stage of development.

### CHAPTER 4 — CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION: EXCEPTIONS

#### Introduction

##### 37

- (1) This Chapter sets out exceptions to the curriculum implementation duties in Chapter 3.

- (2) Section 26 explains the meaning of certain expressions used in this Chapter.

#### Development work and experiments

##### 38

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may give a direction under this section in order to enable development work or experiments to be carried out.

- (2) A direction may be given in relation to—

- (a) a school specified in the direction;

- (b) schools of a description specified in the direction;

- (c) funded non-maintained nursery education of a description specified in the direction.

- (3) A direction given in relation to a school must be given—

- (a) to the head teacher and the governing body of the school, and

- (b) to the local authority that maintains the school (unless the school is a foundation or voluntary aided school).

- (4) A direction given in relation to a school may, for a period specified in the direction—

- (a) disapply sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in relation to the school;

- (b) provide that sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, apply in relation to the school with the modifications specified in the direction.

- (5) A direction given in relation to a school may also require—

- (a) the head teacher and the governing body of the school, and

- (b) the local authority that maintains the school (unless the school is a foundation or voluntary aided school),

to report to the Welsh Ministers on any matters specified in the direction at times or intervals specified in the direction.

- (6) A direction given in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education must be given to—

- (a) the provider of the education, and

- (b) the local authority that secures the education.

- (7) A direction given in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education may, for a period specified in the direction—

- (a) disapply sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in relation to that education;

- (b) provide that sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, apply in relation to that education with the modifications specified in the direction.

- (8) A direction given in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education may also require—

- (a) the provider of the education, and

- (b) the local authority that secures the education,

to report to the Welsh Ministers on any matters specified in the direction at times or intervals specified in the direction.

- (9) A person to whom a direction is given under this section must comply with the direction.

#### Development work and experiments: conditions

##### 39

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may give a direction under section 38 only if the conditions in this section are met.

- (2) The first condition is that the Welsh Ministers are satisfied that the curriculum that will be implemented for the pupils or children as a result of the direction will—

- (a) enable each pupil or child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secure teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for each pupil or child,

- (c) be suitable for each pupil or child's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) take account of each pupil's or child's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secure broad and balanced teaching and learning for each pupil or child.

- (3) The second condition, in the case of a direction relating to a community school, voluntary controlled school, community special school or maintained nursery school, is that the direction is given—

- (a) on an application made by the governing body with the local authority's agreement,

- (b) on an application made by the local authority with the governing body's agreement, or

- (c) on a proposal made by the Welsh Ministers with the agreement of the governing body and the local authority.

- (4) The second condition, in the case of a direction relating to a foundation school or voluntary aided school, is that the direction is given—

- (a) on an application made by the governing body, or

- (b) with the governing body's agreement.

- (5) The second condition, in the case of a direction relating to funded non-maintained nursery education, is that the direction is given—

- (a) on an application made by the local authority with the agreement of the provider of the education, or

- (b) on a proposal made by the Welsh Ministers with the agreement of the local authority and the provider of the education.

- (6) In this section—

- (a) references to the local authority, in relation to a school, are to the local authority that maintains the school;

- (b) references to the local authority, in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, are to the local authority that secures the education.

#### Development work and experiments: supplementary

##### 40

- (1) This section applies in relation to a direction given under section 38.

- (2) The direction must be given in writing.

- (3) The Welsh Ministers must publish the direction.

- (4) Where the direction relates to a school—

- (a) the head teacher and governing body of the school must publish a summary of the curriculum that will be implemented as a result of the direction, and

- (b) section 12 applies in relation to the school only to the extent that the exercise of functions under that section is compatible with the direction.

- (5) Where the direction relates to funded non-maintained nursery education—

- (a) the provider of the education must publish a summary of the curriculum that will be implemented as a result of the direction, and

- (b) section 16 applies in relation to the education only to the extent that the exercise of functions under that section is compatible with the direction.

#### Pupils and children with additional learning needs

##### 41

- (1) The additional learning provision described in an individual development plan prepared or maintained by a local authority under Part 2 of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2) may include provision—

- (a) that disapplies sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in relation to a pupil;

- (b) that applies sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in relation to a pupil with the modifications specified in the plan;

- (c) that disapplies sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in relation to a child;

- (d) that applies sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in relation to a child with the modifications specified in the plan.

- (2) The special educational provision specified in an EHC plan under section 37 of the Children and Families Act 2014 (c. 6) (education, health and care plans) may include provision—

- (a) that disapplies sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in relation to a pupil;

- (b) that applies sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in relation to a pupil with the modifications specified in the plan;

- (c) that disapplies sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in relation to a child;

- (d) that applies sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in relation to a child with the modifications specified in the plan.

- (3) But an individual development plan or EHC plan may include provision referred to in subsection (1) or (2) only if the local authority is satisfied that the curriculum that will be implemented for the child as a result of the disapplication or modification will—

- (a) enable the pupil or child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secure teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for the pupil or child,

- (c) be suitable for the pupil or child's age, ability and aptitude, and

- (d) secure broad and balanced teaching and learning for the pupil or child.

- (4) Regulations may specify further conditions that must be satisfied before an individual development plan or EHC plan may include provision referred to in subsection (1) or (2).

- (5) In this section, the reference to the local authority is to the local authority that prepares or maintains the individual development plan or that secures the preparation, amendment or replacement of the EHC plan.

#### Temporary exceptions for individual pupils and children

##### 42

- (1) Regulations may enable the head teacher of a maintained school or maintained nursery school to determine, in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations—

- (a) that sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, are to be disapplied in relation to a registered pupil at the school during the period specified in the determination, or

- (b) that sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, are to be applied in relation to a registered pupil at the school, during the period specified in the determination, with the modifications specified in the determination.

- (2) Regulations may enable a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education to determine, in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations—

- (a) that sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, are to be disapplied, during the period specified in the determination, in relation to a child for whom the education is provided, or

- (b) that sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, are to be applied in relation to such a child, during the period specified in the determination, with the modifications specified in the determination.

- (3) If regulations are made under this section, they must provide that a person may make a determination under the regulations only if satisfied that the curriculum that will be implemented for the pupil or child as a result of the determination will—

- (a) enable the pupil or child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secure teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for each pupil or child,

- (c) be suitable for the pupil or child's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) take account of the pupil's or child's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secure broad and balanced teaching and learning for the pupil or child.

- (4) Regulations made under this section may specify further conditions that must be met before a determination may be made under the regulations.

#### Temporary exceptions for individual pupils and children: supplementary

##### 43

- (1) This section makes further provision about regulations made under section 42.

- (2) The regulations must not allow a determination to be made under the regulations on the grounds that a pupil or child has, or may have, additional learning needs (see, instead, section 41).

- (3) The regulations must specify that that the operative period of a determination made under the regulations is either—

- (a) a fixed period specified in the determination that does not exceed 6 months, or

- (b) a period that must be brought to an end (in accordance with the regulations) no later than 6 months from its beginning.

- (4) But the regulations may specify a different operative period for a determination if that operative period is to begin—

- (a) immediately after the end of the operative period of a previous determination, or

- (b) before the end of a period, specified in the regulations, that begins with the end of the operative period of a previous determination.

- (5) The regulations may enable a person who makes a determination under the regulations—

- (a) to vary the determination, except in relation to its operative period, or

- (b) to revoke the determination.

- (6) The regulations may specify—

- (a) cases or circumstances in which a determination made under the regulations may be varied or revoked;

- (b) conditions which must be met before a determination made under the regulations may be varied or revoked.

- (7) In this section, the “operative period” of a determination means the period for which the determination has effect.

#### Provision of information about temporary exceptions

##### 44

- (1) A head teacher who makes, varies or revokes a determination under regulations made under section 42 must give the information described in subsections (3) and (4), in writing, to—

- (a) the pupil to whom the determination relates,

- (b) the pupil's parent,

- (c) the governing body of the school, and

- (d) the local authority that maintains the school.

- (2) A provider of funded non-maintained nursery education who makes, varies or revokes a determination under regulations made under section 42 must give the information described in subsections (3) and (4), in writing, to—

- (a) the parent of the child to whom the determination relates, and

- (b) the local authority that secures the education.

- (3) The information is—

- (a) the fact that the determination has been made, varied or revoked;

- (b) the effect of the determination, variation or revocation;

- (c) the reasons for making, varying or revoking the determination;

- (d) information about—

- (i) the right to make an appeal under section 45 (in the case of a determination that relates to a pupil);

- (ii) the right to make an appeal under section 46 (in the case of a determination that relates to any other child).

- (4) Where a determination is made or varied, the information must also include—

- (a) a description of the provision that will be made for the pupil or child's education during the period specified in the determination;

- (b) a description of the way in which the head teacher or provider proposes to ensure that the adopted curriculum is implemented for the pupil or child at the end of that period.

- (5) The duty in subsection (1)(a) does not apply if the head teacher considers that the pupil does not have the capacity to understand—

- (a) the information that would be given, or

- (b) what it means to exercise the right conferred by section 45.

#### Appeals about temporary exceptions for individual pupils

##### 45

- (1) This section applies where—

- (a) the head teacher of a school makes, varies or revokes a determination relating to a pupil under regulations made under section 42, or

- (b) a pupil, or a pupil's parent, asks the head teacher of a school to make a determination under those regulations in relation to the pupil, but no determination is made.

- (2) Each of the following may appeal to the governing body of the school—

- (a) the pupil;

- (b) the pupil's parent.

- (3) Subsection (2)(a) does not apply if the governing body considers that the pupil in question does not have the capacity to understand what it means to exercise the right conferred by this section.

- (4) If an appeal is made under this section, the governing body may—

- (a) direct the head teacher, in writing, to take the action that it considers appropriate in respect of the determination referred to in subsection (1)(a) or the request referred to in subsection (1)(b), or

- (b) inform the head teacher, in writing, that no such direction will be given.

- (5) The governing body must give written notice of its decision to—

- (a) the pupil, and

- (b) the pupil's parent.

- (6) Subsection (5)(a) does not apply if the governing body considers that the pupil in question does not have the capacity to understand the information that would be given.

- (7) The head teacher must comply with a direction given under subsection (4).

- (8) Regulations may make further provision in connection with appeals under this section.

#### Appeals about temporary exceptions for individual children

##### 46

- (1) This section applies where—

- (a) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education makes, varies or revokes a determination under regulations made under section 42 in relation to a child for whom the education is provided, or

- (b) the parent of a child for whom funded non-maintained nursery education is provided asks the provider of the education to make a determination under those regulations in relation to the child, but no determination is made.

- (2) The child's parent may appeal to the local authority that has secured the education.

- (3) If an appeal is made under this section, the local authority may—

- (a) direct the provider, in writing, to take the action that the local authority considers appropriate in respect of the determination referred to in subsection (1)(a) or the request referred to in subsection (1)(b), or

- (b) inform the provider, in writing, that no such direction will be given.

- (4) The local authority must give written notice of its decision to the child's parent.

- (5) The provider must comply with a direction given under subsection (3).

- (6) Regulations may make further provision in connection with appeals under this section.

#### Exception for pupils for whom arrangements are made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996

##### 47

Sections 27, 28, 29 and 30 do not apply in relation to pupils for whom arrangements are made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (see, instead, Part 3).

#### Power to make provision for further exceptions

##### 48

- (1) Regulations may—

- (a) disapply sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations;

- (b) provide that sections 27, 28, 29 and 30, or any of those sections, apply with the modifications specified in the regulations in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations;

- (c) disapply sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations;

- (d) provide that sections 34, 35 and 36, or any of those sections, apply with the modifications specified in the regulations in cases or circumstances specified in the regulations.

- (2) Regulations under this section may confer a discretion on a person.

## PART 3 — CURRICULUM FOR EXCEPTIONAL PROVISION OF EDUCATION IN PUPIL REFERRAL UNITS OR ELSEWHERE

### General

#### Introduction

##### 49

- (1) This Part makes provision about a curriculum for education provided under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (exceptional provision of education at pupil referral units or elsewhere: Wales).

- (2) Sections 50 to 52 apply to education provided at pupil referral units.

- (3) Sections 53 to 55 apply to education provided otherwise than at pupil referral units.

- (4) References in this Part to pupils, in relation to a pupil referral unit, are to registered pupils at the unit, except those over compulsory school age.

### Pupil referral units

#### Curriculum requirements

##### 50

- (1) The local authority, the management committee (if there is one) and the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must exercise their functions with a view to ensuring that there is a curriculum for the unit that complies with the requirements in subsections (2) to (5).

- (2) The first requirement is that the curriculum must—

- (a) enable pupils to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) provide for appropriate progression for pupils,

- (c) be suitable for pupils of differing ages, abilities and aptitudes, and

- (d) be broad and balanced, so far as is appropriate for pupils.

- (3) The second requirement is that the curriculum must make provision for teaching and learning that—

- (a) encompasses the Health and Well-being area of learning and experience,

- (b) encompasses the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education, and

- (c) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (4) The third requirement is that the provision made under subsection (3)(b) must be developmentally appropriate for pupils.

- (5) The fourth requirement is that the curriculum must make provision, if it is reasonably possible and appropriate to do so, for teaching and learning—

- (a) in the other areas of learning and experience, and

- (b) in the other mandatory elements.

- (6) The teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must publish a summary of the curriculum for the unit, or arrange for it to be published.

#### Curriculum review and revision

##### 51

- (1) The local authority, the management committee (if there is one) and the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must—

- (a) keep the curriculum for the unit under review, and

- (b) ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements in section 50.

- (2) In considering whether the curriculum continues to comply with the requirements in section 50, they must have regard to information derived from any assessment arrangements implemented by them under regulations made under section 56.

- (3) They must revise the curriculum if they consider it necessary to do so to ensure that it continues to comply with the requirements in section 50.

- (4) They may also revise the curriculum at any time they consider it appropriate to do so.

- (5) If the curriculum is revised, the teacher in charge of the unit must publish a summary of the revised curriculum, or arrange for it to be published.

#### Curriculum implementation

##### 52

- (1) The teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must ensure that the curriculum for the unit is implemented in a way that—

- (a) enables each pupil to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secures teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for each pupil,

- (c) is suitable for each pupil's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) takes account of each pupil's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secures broad and balanced teaching and learning for each pupil.

- (2) The teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must ensure that the curriculum for the unit is implemented in a way that secures teaching and learning for each pupil that—

- (a) encompasses the Health and Well-being area of learning and experience,

- (b) encompasses the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education, and

- (c) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (3) The teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must ensure that the teaching and learning secured under subsection (2)(b) is suitable for each pupil's stage of development.

- (4) The teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must—

- (a) consider what teaching and learning it would be appropriate to provide for each pupil in the other areas of learning and experience and the other mandatory elements for which the curriculum makes provision, and

- (b) ensure, as far as reasonably possible, that the teaching and learning is provided for the pupil.

- (5) The local authority and the management committee (if there is one) for a pupil referral unit must exercise their functions with a view to ensuring that the curriculum for the unit is implemented for pupils in accordance with this section.

### Other education provided under section 19A of the Education Act 1996

#### Curriculum requirements

##### 53

- (1) A local authority that makes arrangements under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) to provide education for a child otherwise than at a pupil referral unit must ensure that the arrangements secure a curriculum for the child that complies with the requirements in subsections (2) to (5).

- (2) The first requirement is that the curriculum must—

- (a) enable the child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) provide for appropriate progression for the child,

- (c) be suitable for the child's age, ability and aptitude, and

- (d) be broad and balanced, so far as is appropriate for the child.

- (3) The second requirement is that the curriculum must make provision, so far as is appropriate for the child, for teaching and learning that—

- (a) encompasses the Health and Well-being area of learning and experience,

- (b) encompasses the mandatory element of Relationships and Sexuality Education, and

- (c) develops the mandatory cross-curricular skills.

- (4) The third requirement is that the provision made under subsection (3)(b) must be suitable for the child's stage of development.

- (5) The fourth requirement is that the curriculum must make provision, if it is reasonably possible and appropriate to do so, for teaching and learning—

- (a) in the other areas of learning and experience, and

- (b) in the other mandatory elements.

#### Review and revision

##### 54

- (1) A local authority that makes arrangements under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) to provide education for a child otherwise than at a pupil referral unit must—

- (a) keep the arrangements under review, and

- (b) ensure that they continue to secure a curriculum for the child that complies with the requirements in section 53.

- (2) In considering whether the arrangements continue to secure a curriculum for the child that complies with those requirements, the local authority must have regard to information derived from any assessment arrangements implemented in relation to the child under regulations made under section 56.

- (3) The local authority must revise the arrangements if they consider it necessary to do so to ensure that they continue to secure a curriculum for the child that continues to comply with the requirements in section 53.

#### Curriculum implementation

##### 55

- (1) A local authority that makes arrangements under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) to provide education for a child otherwise than at a pupil referral unit must ensure that the arrangements ensure that the curriculum for the child is implemented in a way that—

- (a) enables the child to develop in the ways described in the four purposes,

- (b) secures teaching and learning that offers appropriate progression for the child,

- (c) is suitable for the child's age, ability and aptitude,

- (d) takes account of the child's additional learning needs (if any), and

- (e) secures teaching and learning that is broad and balanced, so far as is appropriate for the child.

- (2) The local authority must also ensure that the arrangements ensure the teaching and learning for which the curriculum must make provision under section 53(3), (4) and (5).

## PART 4 — ASSESSMENT AND PROGRESSION

#### Duty to make provision about assessment arrangements

##### 56

- (1) Regulations must make provision about assessment arrangements.

- (2) Assessment arrangements are arrangements for assessing, in relation to the relevant curriculum—

- (a) the progress made by pupils and children,

- (b) the next steps in their progression, and

- (c) the teaching and learning needed to make that progress.

- (3) Regulations under this section may (among other things)—

- (a) require a relevant person to make and implement assessment arrangements;

- (b) specify when and how those arrangements are to be made and implemented;

- (c) specify the assessment arrangements, or criteria that the arrangements must meet;

- (d) require the effectiveness of assessment arrangements to be evaluated;

- (e) make provision about how that evaluation is to be carried out;

- (f) require assessment arrangements to be kept under review, and to be revised;

- (g) require a relevant person to provide information, as specified in the regulations, about assessment arrangements made or implemented by that person, and about the matters described in subsection (2).

- (4) In this section, “*relevant person*” means—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (e) the management committee of a pupil referral unit;

- (f) a person who provides teaching and learning for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56).

- (5) In this section, “relevant curriculum”—

- (a) in relation to a maintained school or maintained nursery school, means the curriculum adopted under section 11 by the head teacher and governing body of the school (and if that curriculum is revised under section 12, means that curriculum as revised);

- (b) in relation to funded non-maintained nursery education, means the curriculum adopted under section 15 by the person by whom the education is provided (and if that curriculum is revised under section 16, means that curriculum as revised);

- (c) in relation to a pupil referral unit, means the curriculum for the unit referred to in section 50 (and if that curriculum is revised under section 51, means that curriculum as revised);

- (d) in relation to education provided for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996, means the curriculum for the child referred to in section 53.

- (6) Regulations under this section may—

- (a) specify assessment arrangements to be made and implemented by reference to a document published from time to time by any person;

- (b) make provision for assessment arrangements to be implemented in accordance with a document published from time to time by any person.

#### Promoting and maintaining understanding of progression

##### 57

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may direct a relevant person (or relevant persons of a specified description) to take specified steps with a view to promoting and maintaining understanding of progression in the context of a relevant curriculum.

- (2) A relevant person to whom a direction is given under this section must comply with the direction.

- (3) In this section—

- (a) “relevant curriculum” and “relevant person” have the meaning given in section 56, and

- (b) “*specified*” means specified in a direction under this section.

## PART 5 — CURRICULUM: POST COMPULSORY EDUCATION IN MAINTAINED SCHOOLS

#### Introduction and interpretation

##### 58

- (1) This Part makes provision about a curriculum for registered pupils at maintained schools who are above compulsory school age.

- (2) In this Part—

- (a) references to a maintained school are to a maintained school at which pupils above compulsory school age are registered;

- (b) references to pupils, in relation to a maintained school, are to registered pupils at the school who are above compulsory school age;

- (c) references to a curriculum are to a curriculum for those pupils.

#### General curriculum requirement

##### 59

- (1) The head teacher and governing body of a maintained school must ensure that the curriculum for the school's pupils complies with the requirement in subsection (2).

- (2) The requirement is that the curriculum is a balanced and broadly based curriculum that⁠—

- (a) promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural, mental and physical development of the pupils and of society, and

- (b) prepares the pupils for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of later life.

- (3) A local authority in Wales must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that the curriculum complies with the requirement in subsection (2) in every maintained school that it maintains.

- (4) The Welsh Ministers must exercise their functions with a view to ensuring that the curriculum complies with the requirement in subsection (2) in every maintained school.

#### Curriculum requirement: Relationships and Sexuality Education

##### 60

- (1) The head teacher of a maintained school must ensure that teaching and learning in Relationships and Sexuality Education is provided at the school for pupils who request it.

- (2) The head teacher is to be treated as complying with subsection (1) if the teaching and learning is provided at the school at a time or times which are convenient for the majority of the pupils who have requested it.

- (3) The governing body of a maintained school must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that teaching and learning in Relationships and Sexuality Education is provided in accordance with this section.

#### Curriculum requirement: Religion, Values and Ethics

##### 61

- (1) The head teacher of a maintained school must ensure that teaching and learning in Religion, Values and Ethics is provided at the school for pupils who request it.

- (2) The head teacher is to be treated as complying with subsection (1) if the teaching and learning is provided at the school at a time or times which are convenient for the majority of the pupils who have requested it.

- (3) Teaching and learning provided under this section—

- (a) must reflect the fact that the religious traditions in Wales are mainly Christian, while taking account of the teaching and practices of the other principal religions represented in Wales, and

- (b) must also reflect the fact that a range of non-religious philosophical convictions are held in Wales.

- (4) In subsection (3), the reference to “philosophical convictions” is to philosophical convictions within the meaning of Article 2 of the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights.

- (5) The governing body of a maintained school must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that teaching and learning in Religion, Values and Ethics is provided in accordance with this section.

- (6) In this section—

- “*the European Convention on Human Rights*” (“**y Confensiwn Ewropeaidd ar Hawliau Dynol**”) means the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of Europe at Rome on 4th November 1950, as it has effect for the time being in relation to the United Kingdom;

- “*the First Protocol*” (“**y Protocol Cyntaf**”), in relation to that Convention, means the protocol to the Convention agreed at Paris on 20th March 1952.

#### Further curriculum requirements

##### 62

See sections 33A to 33O of the Learning and Skills Act 2000 (c. 21) (local curricula for students aged 16 to 18) for further provision about a curriculum for pupils at maintained schools who are above compulsory school age.

## PART 6 — SUPPLEMENTARY

### Mental health and emotional well-being

#### Duty to have regard to mental health and emotional well-being of children and young persons

##### 63

- (1) A person within subsection (2) must, in exercising any function conferred by or under this Act, have regard to the mental health and emotional well-being of children and young persons likely to be affected by the exercise of the function.

- (2) The persons are—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (e) the management committee for a pupil referral unit;

- (f) a person who provides teaching and learning for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56);

- (g) a local authority in Wales.

### UN Conventions

#### Duty to promote knowledge and understanding of UN Conventions on the rights of children and persons with disabilities

##### 64

- (1) The head teacher and governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school must promote knowledge and understanding of Part 1 of the UNCRC, and of the UNCRPD, among those who provide teaching and learning in respect of the school's curriculum.

- (2) A provider of funded non-maintained nursery education must promote knowledge and understanding of Part 1 of the UNCRC, and of the UNCRPD, among those who provide teaching and learning in respect of the curriculum for children for whom that education is provided.

- (3) The local authority, the management committee (if there is one) and the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must promote knowledge and understanding of Part 1 of the UNCRC, and of the UNCRPD, among those who provide teaching and learning in respect of the curriculum for the unit.

- (4) A local authority in Wales must promote knowledge and understanding of Part 1 of the UNCRC, and of the the UNCRPD, among those who provide teaching and learning otherwise than at a pupil referral unit under arrangements made by the authority under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56).

- (5) In this section—

- “*UNCRC*” (“**CCUHP**”) means the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession by General Assembly resolution 44/25 of 20 November 1989; and Part 1 of the UNCRC is to be treated as having effect—as set out for the time being in Part 1 of the Schedule to the Rights of Children and Young Persons (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 2), butsubject to any declaration or reservation as set out for the time being in Part 3 of that Schedule;

- “*UNCRPD*” (“**CCUHPA**”) means the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its optional protocol adopted on 13 December 2006 by General Assembly resolution A/RES/61/106 and opened for signature on 30 March 2007; and it is to be treated as having effect subject to any declaration or reservation made by the United Kingdom Government upon ratification, save where the declaration or reservation has subsequently been withdrawn.

### Co-operation and facilitation

#### Duty to co-operate

##### 65

- (1) A person within subsection (2) must seek to enter into co-operation arrangements with—

- (a) another person within that subsection, or

- (b) the governing body of an institution in Wales within the further education sector,

if the person considers that entering into such arrangements would facilitate the exercise of a function conferred on the person by or under this Act.

- (2) The persons are—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (e) the management committee for a pupil referral unit;

- (f) a local authority in Wales.

- (3) If a person seeks to enter into co-operation arrangements with another person in accordance with subsection (1), the other person must consider the request.

- (4) In this section, “*co-operation arrangements*” means—

- (a) arrangements made in exercise of the powers of collaboration described in section 5 of the Education (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 7), or

- (b) arrangements of a similar kind made by or with—

- (i) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school,

- (ii) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education,

- (iii) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit, or

- (iv) the management committee for a pupil referral unit.

#### Welsh Ministers’ duty to facilitate the performance of functions

##### 66

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must exercise their functions with a view to facilitating the performance of functions, by persons within subsection (2), that are conferred on them by or under Parts 2 to 4.

- (2) The persons are—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (e) the management committee for a pupil referral unit;

- (f) a person who provides teaching and learning for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56);

- (g) a local authority in Wales.

#### Local authorities’ duty to facilitate the performance of functions

##### 67

- (1) A local authority in Wales must exercise its functions with a view to facilitating the performance of functions, by persons within subsection (2), that are conferred on them by or under Parts 2 to 4.

- (2) The persons are—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school that is maintained by the local authority;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school that is maintained by the local authority;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education secured by the local authority;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit maintained by the local authority;

- (e) the management committee for a pupil referral unit maintained by the local authority.

- (3) Subsection (4) applies where a local authority makes arrangements under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) for the provision of education to a child otherwise than at⁠—

- (a) a maintained school or maintained nursery school that is maintained by the local authority, or

- (b) a pupil referral unit that is maintained by the local authority.

- (4) The authority must exercise its functions with a view to facilitating the performance of their relevant functions by persons within subsection (5).

- (5) The persons are—

- (a) where the child is provided with the education at a maintained school or a maintained nursery school that is maintained by another local authority, the head teacher and governing body of the school;

- (b) where the child is provided with the education at a pupil referral unit that is maintained by another local authority, the teacher in charge of the unit, the management committee for the unit (if there is one) and that authority;

- (c) where the education is provided for the child otherwise than at a maintained school or pupil referral unit, any person who provides it.

- (6) The “relevant functions” of a person within subsection (5) are the functions conferred on that person, by or under Parts 2 to 4, in respect of the education.

### Welsh language

#### Welsh Ministers’ duty to promote access etc to Welsh medium courses of study

##### 68

- (1) The Welsh Ministers must promote access to, and the availability of, courses of study taught through the medium of the Welsh language for children to whom this Act applies.

- (2) In this section, “*course of study*” means a course of education or training that—

- (a) leads to a form of qualification or set of forms of qualification approved under Part 4 of the Qualifications Wales Act 2015 (anaw 5) or designated under Part 5 of that Act, or

- (b) is designated by the Welsh Ministers under section 34(8) of that Act.

### Specific provision for further settings etc

#### Power to make provision for children receiving education in more than one setting etc

##### 69

- (1) Regulations may make provision for and in connection with teaching and learning to be secured for children of compulsory school age to whom this section applies.

- (2) This section applies to a child who is a registered pupil at a maintained school if—

- (a) education is provided for the child, either by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) or otherwise—

- (i) at another maintained school, or

- (ii) at a maintained nursery school;

- (b) education is provided for the child under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 at a pupil referral unit;

- (c) education is provided for the child under section 19A of the Education Act 1996, otherwise than at a pupil referral unit, maintained school or maintained nursery school.

- (3) This section applies to a child who is a registered pupil at a maintained nursery school if⁠—

- (a) education is provided for the child, either by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 or otherwise—

- (i) at another maintained nursery school, or

- (ii) at a maintained school;

- (b) education is provided for the child at a pupil referral unit;

- (c) education is provided for the child under section 19A of the Education Act 1996, otherwise than at a pupil referral unit, maintained school or maintained nursery school.

- (4) This section applies to a child who is a registered pupil at a pupil referral unit if education is provided for the child, by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996—

- (a) at another pupil referral unit, or

- (b) otherwise than at a pupil referral unit or a maintained school or maintained nursery school.

- (5) This section applies to a child if the child—

- (a) is not above compulsory school age, and

- (b) is of a description specified in the regulations.

- (6) Regulations under this section may also make provision for and in connection with the making, and implementation, of arrangements for assessing the following matters—

- (a) the progress made by children to whom this section applies;

- (b) the next steps in their progression;

- (c) the teaching and learning needed to make that progress.

- (7) The regulations may—

- (a) confer functions on a person within subsection (8);

- (b) apply a provision made by or under this Act in respect of children to whom this section applies, with or without modifications;

- (c) provide for a provision made by or under this Act, that would otherwise apply in respect of those children, not to do so.

- (8) The persons are—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (d) the management committee for a pupil referral unit;

- (e) a person who provides teaching and learning for a child otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996;

- (f) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (g) a local authority in Wales.

#### Power to apply Act to detained children and detained young persons

##### 70

- (1) Regulations may apply provisions of this Act, with or without modifications, to—

- (a) detained children in Wales of a description specified in the regulations, and

- (b) detained young persons in Wales of a description specified in the regulations.

- (2) In this section, a detained child or detained young person means a child or young person who is detained in pursuance of—

- (a) an order made by a court, or

- (b) an order of recall made by the Secretary of State.

### Guidance

#### Duty to have regard to guidance

##### 71

- (1) The Welsh Ministers may issue guidance in relation to the exercise of functions conferred by or under this Act.

- (2) Before issuing guidance under this section, the Welsh Ministers must consult the persons they think appropriate (if any).

- (3) In exercising their functions, the following persons must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers under this section—

- (a) the head teacher of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (b) the governing body of a maintained school or a maintained nursery school;

- (c) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education;

- (d) the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit;

- (e) the management committee for a pupil referral unit;

- (f) a person who provides teaching and learning for a child, otherwise than at a maintained school, maintained nursery school or pupil referral unit, by virtue of arrangements made under section 19A of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56);

- (g) a local authority in Wales.

## PART 7 — GENERAL

#### Status of this Act as an Education Act

##### 72

This Act is to be included in the list of Education Acts in section 578 of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56).

#### Minor and consequential amendments and repeals

##### 73

Schedule 2 contains minor and consequential amendments and repeals.

#### Power to make additional provision to give full effect to this Act etc

##### 74

- (1) Regulations may make—

- (a) any supplementary, incidental or consequential provision, or

- (b) any transitory, transitional or saving provision,

that the Welsh Ministers think necessary or appropriate for the purposes of giving full effect to, or in consequence of, any provision made by or under this Act.

- (2) Regulations under subsection (1) may modify this Act or any other enactment (whenever enacted or made).

#### Regulations

##### 75

- (1) A power to make regulations under this Act—

- (a) is exercisable by statutory instrument, and

- (b) includes power to make different provision for different purposes.

- (2) A statutory instrument containing—

- (a) regulations under section 5, 31 or 48, or

- (b) regulations under section 74 that amend or repeal any enactment contained in primary legislation,

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru.

- (3) Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

- (4) In subsection (2), “*primary legislation*” means—

- (a) an Act of Senedd Cymru;

- (b) an Assembly Measure;

- (c) an Act of Parliament.

#### The What Matters Code and the Progression Code: procedure

##### 76

- (1) This section applies to—

- (a) the What Matters Code;

- (b) the Progression Code.

- (2) Before issuing or revising the Code, the Welsh Ministers must—

- (a) consult the persons they think appropriate (if any), and

- (b) lay before Senedd Cymru a draft of the proposed Code (or, in the case of revisions, of the proposed revised Code).

- (3) If, before the end of the 40 day period, the Senedd resolves not to approve a draft laid before it under subsection (2)(b), the Welsh Ministers must not issue the Code or revised Code in the form of that draft (or in any other form, unless a draft of that other form is laid before the Senedd under subsection (2)(b)).

- (4) If no such resolution is made before the end of that period in respect of a draft laid before the Senedd under subsection (2)(b), the Welsh Ministers must issue the Code (or revised Code) in the form of the draft.

- (5) The 40 day period, in relation to a draft—

- (a) begins with the day on which the draft is laid before the Senedd under subsection (2)(b), and

- (b) does not include any period during which the Senedd is dissolved, or is in recess for more than four days.

- (6) Where the Welsh Ministers consult any persons about a Code referred to in subsection (1) before this section comes into force, that consultation is to be treated as fulfilling the duty in subsection (2)(a) in relation to that Code.

#### The RSE Code: procedure

##### 77

- (1) Before issuing or revising the RSE Code, the Welsh Ministers must—

- (a) consult the persons they think appropriate (if any), and

- (b) lay before Senedd Cymru a draft of the proposed Code (or, in the case of revisions, of the proposed revised Code).

- (2) The Welsh Ministers must not issue the RSE Code (or the revised RSE Code) unless a draft of the proposed Code (or of the proposed revised Code)—

- (a) has been laid before the Senedd under subsection (1)(b), and

- (b) has been approved by a resolution of the Senedd.

- (3) If the Senedd resolves to approve a draft laid before it under subsection (1)(b), the Welsh Ministers must issue the RSE Code (or the revised RSE Code) in the form of the draft.

- (4) Where the Welsh Ministers consult any persons about the RSE Code before this section comes into force, that consultation is to be treated as fulfilling the duty in subsection (1)⁠(a).

#### Written information, notices and directions

##### 78

- (1) This section applies where provision made by or under this Act—

- (a) requires information to be given to a person in writing,

- (b) requires a written notice to be given to a person, or

- (c) requires or authorises a direction to be given to a person.

- (2) The information, notice or direction may be given to the person—

- (a) by delivering it to the person,

- (b) by leaving it at the person's proper address,

- (c) by sending it by post to the person's proper address, or

- (d) if the condition in subsection (3) is met, by sending it electronically to the person's proper address,

and the references in subsections (4) to (6) to giving information or a notice or a direction are references to giving it in one of the ways specified in paragraphs (a) to (d).

- (3) The condition in this subsection is met if the person to whom the information, notice or direction is to be given—

- (a) has agreed that it may be sent electronically, and

- (b) has provided an address suitable for that purpose.

- (4) The information, notice or direction may be given to a body corporate by giving it to the secretary or clerk of that body.

- (5) The information, notice or direction may be given to a partnership by giving it to—

- (a) a partner in the partnership, or

- (b) a person having the control or management of the partnership business.

- (6) The information, notice or direction may be given to any other unincorporated body by giving it to a member of the governing body of the unincorporated body.

- (7) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b) and (c) and section 13(1) of the Legislation (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 4) (service of documents), the proper address of a person is—

- (a) in the case of a head teacher, the address of the school;

- (b) in the case of a teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit, the address of the pupil referral unit;

- (c) in the case of a body corporate, the address of the registered or principal office of the body;

- (d) in the case of a partnership, or any other unincorporated body, the address of the principal office of the partnership or body;

- (e) in the case of a person to whom the information or notice is given in reliance on any of subsections (4) to (6), the proper address of the body corporate, partnership or other unincorporated body in question;

- (f) in any other case, the last known address of the person.

- (8) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d) and section 13(2) of the Legislation (Wales) Act 2019, the proper address of a person is the address provided by that person in accordance with subsection (3)(b).

- (9) In the case of—

- (a) a company registered outside the United Kingdom,

- (b) a partnership carrying on business outside the United Kingdom, and

- (c) any other unincorporated body with offices outside the United Kingdom,

the references in subsection (7) to its principal office include references to its principal office within the United Kingdom (if any).

#### Meaning of “maintained school”, “maintained nursery school” and associated expressions

##### 79

- (1) In this Act—

- (a) “*maintained school*” means—

- (i) a community, foundation or voluntary school maintained by a local authority in Wales, or

- (ii) a community special school maintained by a local authority in Wales, other than a community special school established in a hospital;

- (b) “*maintained nursery school*” means a nursery school which is maintained by a local authority in Wales and is not a special school.

- (2) In this Act, the following expressions have the same meaning as in the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31)—

- “*community school*” (“**ysgol gymunedol**”)

- “*community special school*” (“**ysgol arbennig gymunedol**”)

- “*foundation school*” (“**ysgol sefydledig**”)

- “*voluntary aided school*” (“**ysgol wirfoddol a gynorthwyir**”)

- “*voluntary controlled school*” (“**ysgol wirfoddol a reolir**”)

- “*voluntary school*” (“**ysgol wirfoddol**”).

#### Meaning of “funded non-maintained nursery education” and associated expressions

##### 80

- (1) In this Act—

- (a) “*funded non-maintained nursery education*” means nursery education that is provided—

- (i) by a person other than the governing body of a maintained school or maintained nursery school,

- (ii) under arrangements made between that person and a local authority in Wales, in the exercise of its duty to secure nursery education under section 118 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31), and

- (iii) in consideration of financial assistance provided by the authority under the arrangements;

- (b) “*nursery education*” means full-time or part-time education suitable for children who have not attained compulsory school age.

- (2) In this Act—

- (a) a provider of funded non-maintained nursery education is a person with whom arrangements are made by a local authority in the exercise of its duty to secure nursery education under section 118 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998, and

- (b) a local authority that secures funded non-maintained nursery education is a local authority by which arrangements of that description are made for that education.

#### Meaning of “pupil referral unit” and associated expressions

##### 81

- (1) In this Act, “*pupil referral unit*” has the meaning given by section 19A(2) of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) (exceptional provision of education in pupil referral units or elsewhere: Wales).

- (2) In this Act—

- (a) the local authority, in relation to a pupil referral unit, means the local authority that maintains the unit, and

- (b) the management committee, in relation to a pupil referral unit, means the committee (if there is one) established to act as the management committee for the unit under regulations made under Schedule 1 to the Education Act 1996.

#### General interpretation

##### 82

- (1) In this Act—

- “*class*” (“**dosbarth**”), in relation to a pupil, means—the teaching group in which the pupil is regularly taught, orwhere there are two or more such groups, the group designated by the head teacher of the school;

- “*modify*” (“**addasu**”), in relation to an enactment, includes amend, repeal or revoke;

- “*regulations*” (“**rheoliadau**”) means regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

- (2) Other expressions in this Act that are defined in, or given a meaning by, the Education Act 1996 (c. 56) have the same meaning as in that Act.

- (3) But where for the purposes of this Act an expression is given (either by this Act or by the Legislation (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 4)) a meaning different from that given to it for the purposes of the Education Act 1996, that meaning applies for the purposes of that provision instead of the one given for the purposes of the 1996 Act.

#### Index of expressions defined in this Act

##### 83

The Table below lists provisions in this Act that define or otherwise explain expressions used in this Act.

#### Coming into force

##### 84

- (1) This Part comes into force on the day after the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent.

- (2) The other provisions of this Act come into force on whatever day or days the Welsh Ministers may appoint by order.

- (3) The Welsh Ministers may appoint different days under subsection (2) for different purposes.

- (4) An order under subsection (2)—

- (a) is to be made by statutory instrument, and

- (b) may make transitional, transitory or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of a provision of this Act.

#### Short title

##### 85

The short title of this Act is the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021.

## SCHEDULE 1

## PART 1 — CURRICULUM DESIGN

#### Application

##### 1

This Part applies for the purposes of section 24(3) (provision for teaching and learning encompassing the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics).

#### Community schools and foundation and voluntary schools without a religious character

##### 2

- (1) This paragraph applies to—

- (a) a community school;

- (b) a foundation or voluntary school without a religious character.

- (2) The provision must have been designed having regard to the agreed syllabus.

#### Foundation and voluntary controlled schools that have a religious character

##### 3

- (1) This paragraph applies to a foundation or voluntary controlled school that has a religious character.

- (2) The provision must have been designed having regard to the agreed syllabus.

- (3) Sub-paragraph (4) applies in those cases where that provision does not accord—

- (a) with any provisions of the school's trust deed that relate to teaching and learning in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics, or

- (b) if there are no such provisions, with the tenets of the religion or religious denomination specified in relation to the school in an order under section 68A of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31).

- (4) In those cases, the curriculum must also make additional provision for teaching and learning encompassing the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics that does accord with those provisions or (as the case may be) tenets.

#### Voluntary aided schools that have a religious character

##### 4

- (1) This paragraph applies to a voluntary aided school that has a religious character.

- (2) The provision must accord—

- (a) with any provisions of the school's trust deed that relate to teaching and learning in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics, or

- (b) if there are no such provisions, with the tenets of the religion or religious denomination specified in relation to the school in an order under section 68A of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31).

- (3) Sub-paragraph (4) applies in those cases where the provision required under sub-paragraph (2) is not provision that accords with the agreed syllabus.

- (4) In those cases, the curriculum must also make additional provision for teaching and learning encompassing the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics that must have been designed having regard to the agreed syllabus.

## PART 2 — CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION

#### Application

##### 5

This Part applies to the teaching and learning that must be secured under sections 29(3)⁠(b) and 30(6)(b) in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics.

#### Community schools and foundation and voluntary schools without a religious character

##### 6

- (1) This paragraph applies to—

- (a) a community school;

- (b) a foundation or voluntary school without a religious character.

- (2) The teaching and learning must be that for which provision is made in the curriculum under paragraph 2(2) (provision designed having regard to agreed syllabus).

#### Foundation and voluntary controlled schools that have a religious character

##### 7

- (1) This paragraph applies to a foundation or voluntary controlled school that has a religious character.

- (2) The teaching and learning must be that for which provision is made in the curriculum under paragraph 3(2) (provision designed having regard to agreed syllabus), except in the case of a pupil to whom sub-paragraph (4) applies.

- (3) In the case of a pupil to whom sub-paragraph (4) applies, the teaching and leaning must be that for which provision is made in the curriculum under paragraph 3(3) (provision that accords with trust deed etc).

- (4) This sub-paragraph applies to a pupil if a parent of the pupil requests that the teaching and learning be that for which provision is made in the curriculum under paragraph 3(3) (provision that accords with trust deed etc).

#### Voluntary aided schools that have a religious character

##### 8

- (1) This paragraph applies to a voluntary aided school that has a religious character.

- (2) The teaching and learning must be that for which provision is made in the curriculum under paragraph 4(2) (provision that accords with trust deed etc), except in the case of a pupil to whom sub-paragraph (4) applies.

- (3) In the case of a pupil to whom sub-paragraph (4) applies, the teaching and learning must be that for which provision is made in the curriculum in accordance with paragraph 4(3) (provision designed having regard to agreed syllabus).

- (4) This sub-paragraph applies to a pupil if a parent of the pupil requests that the teaching and learning be that for which provision is made in the curriculum in accordance with paragraph 4(3) (provision designed having regard to agreed syllabus).

## PART 3 — INTERPRETATION

##### 9

- (1) For the meaning of “agreed syllabus”, see section 375A(7) of the Education Act 1996 (c. 56).

- (2) For the purposes of this Schedule, a school has a religious character if it is designated by an order made (or treated as being made) under section 68A of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31) (and references to a school without a religious character are to be construed accordingly).

## SCHEDULE 2

#### Education Act 1996 (c. 56)

##### 1

The Education Act 1996 is amended as follows.

##### 2

In section 4 (schools: general), in subsection (2), after “section 19(1)”, in both places it occurs, insert “ or 19A(1) ”.

##### 3

- (1) Section 19 (exceptional provision of education in pupil referral units or elsewhere) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, at the end insert “ : England ”.

- (3) In subsection (1), after “Each local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (4) In subsection (1A), omit “In relation to England,”.

- (5) Omit subsections (2) and (2A).

- (6) In subsection (2B), after “a local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (7) In subsection (3), after “A local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (8) In subsection (3A), omit “In relation to England,”.

- (9) In subsection (4), after “A local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (10) In subsection (7), after “pupil referral units” insert “ maintained by a local authority in England ”.

##### 4

After section 19 insert—

> (19A)
>   (1) Each local authority in Wales must make arrangements for the provision of suitable education at school or otherwise than at school for children within the authority's area who—
>     (a) are of compulsory school age, and
>     (b) by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not receive suitable education for a period unless such arrangements are made for them.
>   (2) A school established (whether before or after the commencement of this Act) and maintained by a local authority in Wales which—
>     (a) is specially organised to provide education for children falling within subsection (1), and
>     (b) is not a special school,
>   is to be known as a “pupil referral unit”.
>   (3) A local authority in Wales may secure the provision of boarding accommodation at any pupil referral unit.
>   (4) A local authority in Wales may make arrangements for the provision of suitable education otherwise than at a school for young persons within the authority's area who, by reason of illness, exclusion from school or otherwise, may not receive a suitable education for a period unless such arrangements are made for them.
>   (5) In this section, “*suitable education*”, in relation to a child or young person means efficient education suitable to the young person's age, ability and aptitude and to any additional learning needs the child or young person may have.
>   (6) The following persons are to be treated as pupils for the purposes of this Act—
>     (a) any child for whom education is provided otherwise than at school under this section, and
>     (b) any young person for whom full-time education is provided otherwise than at school under this section.
>   (7) Schedule 1 has effect in relation to pupil referral units maintained by local authorities in Wales.

##### 5

In Part 5, in the heading of Chapter 3, after “Education” insert “ etc ”.

##### 6

- (1) Section 375 (agreed syllabuses of religious education) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, after “religious education” insert “ : England ”.

- (3) In subsection (2)—

- (a) in the words before paragraph (a), after “agreed syllabus” insert “ , in relation to England, ”;

- (b) in paragraph (b), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (4) In subsection (3), after “agreed syllabus” insert “ for use in England ”.

- (5) In subsection (4), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”.

##### 7

After section 375 insert—

> (375A)
>   (1) Each local authority in Wales must adopt a syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics for use in the schools maintained by them.
>   (2) The syllabus adopted by an authority may make different provision in respect of—
>     (a) different descriptions of school maintained by the local authority;
>     (b) different descriptions of pupils.
>   (3) The syllabus—
>     (a) must reflect the fact that the religious traditions in Wales are in the main Christian while taking account of the teaching and practices of the other principal religions represented in Wales;
>     (b) must also reflect the fact that a range of non-religious philosophical convictions are held in Wales.
>   (4) In subsection (3), the reference to philosophical convictions is to philosophical convictions within the meaning of Article 2 of the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights.
>   (5) Schedule 31 makes further provision in relation to a syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics.
>   (6) In this section—
>     - “*the European Convention on Human Rights*” means the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of Europe at Rome on 4th November 1950, as it has effect for the time being in relation to the United Kingdom;
>     - “*the First Protocol*”, in relation to that Convention, means the protocol to the Convention agreed at Paris on 20th March 1952.
>   (7) References in this Act to an agreed syllabus, in relation to Wales, are to a syllabus adopted under this section, or deemed to be adopted under this section by virtue of paragraph 14(2) of Schedule 31; and accordingly in relation to a syllabus deemed to have been so adopted, any reference to the date on which an agreed syllabus was adopted is a reference to the date of deemed adoption specified by the Welsh Ministers in a direction under that paragraph.
>   (8) In exercising functions under this section, a local authority must have regard to any guidance given by the Welsh Ministers.

##### 8

In the italic heading before section 390 (constitution of standing advisory councils on religious education), omit “*on religious education*”.

##### 9

- (1) Section 390 (constitution of advisory councils) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”.

- (3) After subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) A local authority in Wales shall constitute a standing advisory council on Religion, Values and Ethics for the purposes mentioned in section 391(1A).

- (4) In subsection (2), for “The council” substitute “ A council constituted under subsection (1) or (1A) ”.

- (5) In subsection (3), for “The council” substitute “ A council constituted under subsection (1) or (1A) ”.

- (6) In subsection (4)—

- (a) in paragraph (a), before “a group” insert “ in the case of an area in England, ”;

- (b) after paragraph (a) insert—

> (aa) in the case of an area in Wales, a group of persons to represent—
>   (i) Christian denominations and other religions and denominations of such religions, and
>   (ii) non-religious philosophical convictions;

.

- (7) In subsection (6), after “appointed” insert “ by a local authority in England ”.

- (8) After subsection (6) insert—

> (6A) A local authority in Wales, in appointing persons to a representative group under subsection (4)(aa), must take all reasonable steps to secure the outcome referred to in subsection (6B).
> (6B) The outcome is that the number of members appointed to the group to represent a religion, denomination or non-religious philosophical conviction shall, so far as is consistent with the efficient discharge of the group's functions, reflect broadly the proportionate strength of that religion, denomination or non-religious philosophical conviction in the area.

- (9) After subsection (7) insert—

> (8) In exercising functions under this section, a local authority in Wales must have regard to any guidance given by the Welsh Ministers.
> (9) In this section, “*non-religious philosophical conviction*” has the same meaning as in section 375A(3).

##### 10

- (1) Section 391 (functions of advisory councils) is amended as follows.

- (2) After subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) The purposes referred to in section 390(1A) are—
>   (a) to advise the local authority on such matters connected with—
>     (i) religious worship in community schools or in foundation schools which (within the meaning of Part 2 of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998) do not have a religious character, and
>     (ii) the provision of teaching and learning, under the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021, either in respect of the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics (within the meaning of that Act), or under section 61 of that Act (post-compulsory education in maintained schools: Religion, Values and Ethics),
>   as the authority may refer to the council or as the council may see fit, and
>   (b) to carry out the functions conferred on them by section 394.

- (3) In subsection (2), for “subsection (1)(a)” substitute “ subsections (1)(a) and (1A)(a) ”.

- (4) After subsection (10) insert—

> (11) In exercising its functions under this Act, a council constituted by a local authority in Wales must have regard to any guidance issued by the Welsh Ministers.

##### 11

- (1) Section 392 (advisory councils: supplementary provisions) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1), for “the standing advisory council on religious education” substitute “ a standing advisory council ”.

- (3) In subsection (2), after each reference to “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”.

- (4) In subsection (3), after “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”.

- (5) In subsection (8), in paragraph (b), after each reference to “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”.

##### 12

In section 394 (determination of cases in which requirement for Christian collective worship is not to apply), in subsection (1), in paragraph (b)—

- (a) after “section” insert “ 68A or ”;

- (b) after “by” insert “ the Welsh Ministers or ”.

##### 13

In section 396 (power of Secretary of State to direct advisory council to revoke determination or discharge duty), in subsection (1), after “local authority” insert “ in England ”.

##### 14

After section 396 insert—

> (396A)
>   (1) Where the Welsh Ministers are satisfied, either on complaint by any person or otherwise, that any standing advisory council constituted by a local authority in Wales under section 390—
>     (a) have acted, or are proposing to act, unreasonably in determining for the purposes of section 394 or 395 whether it is appropriate for the requirement imposed by paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 20 to the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 to apply in the case of any school or any class or description of pupils at a school, or
>     (b) have failed to discharge any duty imposed under section 394 or 395,
>   the Welsh Ministers may give the council such directions as to the revocation of the determination, or the withdrawal of the proposed determination or (as the case may be) the discharge of the duty as appear to them to be expedient; and the council shall comply with the directions.
>   (2) Directions under subsection (1) may provide for the making by the council of a new determination to take effect in place of the determination or proposed determination to be revoked or withdrawn by them.

##### 15

- (1) Section 397 (religious education: access to meetings and documents) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, omit “Religious education:”

- (3) In subsection (1)—

- (a) in paragraph (a), for “(1)” substitute “ (A1) ”;

- (b) in paragraph (b), omit “on religious education”.

- (4) In subsection (2), after “Regulations” insert “ made by the appropriate authority ”.

- (5) After subsection (3) insert—

> (4) The “appropriate authority” is—
>   (a) in relation to a conference convened by a local authority in Wales, or a standing advisory council convened by a local authority in Wales, the Welsh Ministers;
>   (b) in relation to a conference convened by a local authority in England, or a standing advisory council convened by a local authority in England, the Secretary of State.

##### 16

- (1) Section 399 (determination of question whether religious education in accordance with trust deed) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, after “religious education” insert “ or education in respect of Religion, Values and Ethics ”.

- (3) The existing provision becomes subsection (1).

- (4) In subsection (1), after “voluntary school” insert “ in England ”.

- (5) After subsection (1), insert—

> (2) Where any trust deed relating to a foundation or voluntary school in Wales makes any provision whereby a bishop or any other ecclesiastical or denominational authority has power to decide whether provision for the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics does or does not accord with the provisions of the trust deed, that question shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the trust deed.
> (3) In subsection (2), the reference to the mandatory element of Religion, Values and Ethics has the same meaning as in the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021.

##### 17

In the italic heading before section 403, after “*Sex education*” insert “ *in England* ”.

##### 18

- (1) Section 403 (sex education: manner of provision) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, after “Sex education” insert “ in England ”.

- (3) In subsection (1)—

- (a) after “head teacher” insert “ of a maintained school in England ”;

- (b) for “a maintained” substitute “ the ”.

- (4) In subsection (1A), in the words before paragraph (a), after “maintained schools” insert “ in England ”.

- (5) In subsection (1C), after “schools” insert “ in England ”.

##### 19

In section 404 (sex education: statements of policy)—

- (a) in the heading, after “Sex education” insert “ in England ”;

- (b) in subsection (1), after “maintained school” insert “ in England ”.

##### 20

In section 405 (exemption from sex education)—

- (a) in the heading, after “sex education” insert “ in England ”;

- (b) in subsection (1), after “maintained school” insert “ in England ”.

##### 21

In section 444ZA (application of section 444 to alternative educational provision), in subsection (1), after “section 19” insert “ or 19A ”.

##### 22

In section 569 (regulations), in subsection (2B)—

- (a) before “444A” insert “ 397, ”;

- (b) before “made by the Welsh Ministers” insert “ , or under paragraph 6B or 6C of Schedule 1, ”.

##### 23

In section 579 (general interpretation), in subsection (1), in the definition of “regulations”—

- (a) omit “(except in Chapter 5A)”;

- (b) at the end insert “ , except where otherwise stated or where the function of making the regulations has been transferred to the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales ”.

##### 24

In section 580 (index), for the entry for “agreed syllabus” substitute—

| agreed syllabus |  |
| --- | --- |
| (in relation to England) | Section 375(2) and (4) |
| (in relation to Wales) | Section 375A(7) |

.

##### 25

- (1) Schedule 1 (pupil referral units) is amended as follows.

- (2) After paragraphs 1 and 2 (general adaptations of enactments) insert—

> (2A) Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply to references in an enactment in, or made under, the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021.

- (3) In paragraph 6 (curriculum)—

- (a) in sub-paragraph (1)—

- (i) after “every pupil referral unit” insert “ maintained by a local authority in England ”;

- (ii) omit “or 99(1)”;

- (b) in sub-paragraph (2), after “every pupil referral unit” insert “ maintained by a local authority in England ”;

- (c) omit sub-paragraphs (3) and (4).

- (4) After paragraph 6 insert—

> (6A) Paragraphs 6B, 6C and 6D apply in relation to every pupil referral unit maintained by a local authority in Wales.
> (6B)
>   (1) The local authority, the management committee (where applicable) and the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit must exercise their functions—
>     (a) in relation to registered pupils of compulsory school age at the unit, in accordance with sections 50 to 52 of the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (curriculum requirements);
>     (b) in relation to registered pupils above compulsory school age at the unit, with a view to securing that the curriculum for those pupils meets the requirements in sub-paragraph (2).
>   (2) The requirements are that the curriculum is a balanced and broadly based curriculum which—
>     (a) promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural, mental and physical development of the pupils, and
>     (b) prepares them for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of later life.
>   (3) The Welsh Ministers may, by regulations, make provision in respect of the curriculum for registered pupils above compulsory school age at pupil referral units, including provision as to making, and keeping up to date, a written statement of the policy in relation to the curriculum for those pupils.
> (6C) The Welsh Ministers may, by regulations—
>   (a) require the local authority, the management committee (where applicable) or the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit to exercise any functions relating to the curriculum that are specified in regulations, or
>   (b) require those persons, or any of them, to collaborate with each other in exercising any functions relating to the curriculum that are specified in regulations.
> (6D)
>   (1) Each local authority in Wales must make arrangements to deal with complaints that the authority, or the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit maintained by the authority—
>     (a) have acted or are proposing to act unreasonably in relation to the exercise of a power conferred, or the performance of a duty imposed, on them—
>       (i) by section 50, 51 or 52 of the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021, or
>       (ii) by paragraph 6B, or by regulations made under paragraph 6B or 6C, or
>     (b) have failed to discharge a duty imposed on them by or under any of those provisions.
>   (2) The Welsh Ministers must not exercise their powers under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the School Standards and Organisation (Wales) Act 2013 (intervention in local authorities) in relation to—
>     (a) a complaint for which arrangements are required to be made under sub-paragraph (1), or
>     (b) a complaint that a local authority in Wales has failed to exercise its powers to secure compliance by the teacher in charge of a pupil referral unit with a duty referred to in subparagraph (1),
>   unless a complaint about the same matter has been made, and has been dealt with, in accordance with arrangements made under that sub-paragraph.

- (5) In paragraph 8—

- (a) the existing provision becomes sub-paragraph (1);

- (b) in that sub-paragraph—

- (i) after “pupil referral units” insert “ in England ”;

- (ii) after “community schools” insert “ in England ”;

- (c) after that sub-paragraph insert—

> (2) Sections 406 and 407 (political indoctrination, and treatment of political issues) apply in relation to pupil referral units in Wales as they apply in relation to community schools in Wales.

##### 26

- (1) Schedule 31 (agreed syllabuses of religious education) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading of the Schedule, after “Religious Education” insert “ and Religion, Values and Ethics ”.

- (3) Before the heading of paragraph 1 insert—

> (A1) A local authority in Wales must convene a conference for the purpose of preparing the first syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics to be adopted by the local authority under section 375A.

- (4) In paragraph 4, in sub-paragraph (2)—

- (a) in paragraph (a), before “a committee” insert “ in the case of an area in England, ”;

- (b) after paragraph (a) insert—

> (aa) in the case of an area in Wales, a committee of persons representing—
>   (i) Christian denominations and other religions and denominations of such religions, and
>   (ii) non-religious philosophical convictions;

.

- (5) In paragraph 4, in sub-paragraph (4), after “appointed” insert “ by a local authority in England ”.

- (6) In paragraph 4, after sub-paragraph (4) insert—

> (5) A local authority in Wales, in appointing persons to a representative group under sub-paragraph (2)(aa), must take all reasonable steps to secure the outcome referred to in sub-paragraph (6).
> (6) The outcome is that the number of members appointed to the committee to represent a religion, denomination or non-religious philosophical conviction shall, so far as consistent with the efficient discharge of the committee's functions, reflect broadly the proportionate strength of that religion, denomination or non-religious philosophical conviction in the area.
> (7) In this paragraph, “*non-religious philosophical conviction*” has the same meaning as in section 375A(3).

- (7) In paragraph 7—

- (a) in sub-paragraph (1), after each reference to “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”;

- (b) in sub-paragraph (2), after “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”.

- (8) In paragraph 8, in paragraph (b), after “denomination” insert “ , philosophical conviction ”.

- (9) After paragraph 9 insert—

> (9A)
>   (1) This paragraph applies where a local authority in Wales convene a conference for the purpose of preparing the first syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics to be adopted by the authority under section 375A.
>   (2) If—
>     (a) the conference unanimously recommend a syllabus for adoption by the authority under section 375A, and
>     (b) it appears to the authority that the recommended syllabus meets the condition in sub-paragraph (3),
>   the authority may give effect to the recommendation by adopting the syllabus.
>   (3) The condition is that the syllabus—
>     (a) reflects the fact that the religious traditions in Wales are mainly Christian, while taking account of the teaching and practices of the other principal religions represented in Wales, and
>     (b) also reflects the fact that a range of non-religious philosophical convictions (within the meaning of section 375A(3)) are held in Wales.
>   (4) If—
>     (a) the authority report to the Welsh Ministers that the conference are unable unanimously to recommend a syllabus for adoption under section 375A,
>     (b) the authority report to the Welsh Ministers that the condition in sub-paragraph (3) prevents them from giving effect to the unanimous recommendation of the conference, or
>     (c) it appears to the Welsh Ministers that the authority have failed to exercise their power under sub-paragraph (2) to give effect to the unanimous recommendation of the conference,
>   the Welsh Ministers must proceed in accordance with paragraph 12.

- (10) In paragraph 10—

- (a) in sub-paragraph (1) for “This paragraph applies where a local authority” substitute “ Sub-paragraph (2) applies where a local authority in England ”;

- (b) after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

> (2A) Sub-paragraphs (2B) and (2C) apply where a local authority in Wales cause a conference to be convened for the purpose of reconsidering any agreed syllabus under paragraph 2 or 3.
> (2B) If—
>   (a) the conference—
>     (i) unanimously recommend that the existing syllabus should continue to be the agreed syllabus, or
>     (ii) unanimously recommend a new syllabus to be adopted in substitution for the existing syllabus, and
>   (b) it appears to the authority that the condition in sub-paragraph (2C) has been met in relation to the syllabus,
> the authority may give effect to the recommendation.
> (2C) The condition in this sub-paragraph is met in relation to a syllabus if the syllabus—
>   (a) reflects the fact that the religious traditions in Wales are in the main Christian while taking account of the teaching and practices of the other principal religions represented in Wales, and
>   (b) also reflects the fact that a range of non-religious philosophical convictions (within the meaning of section 375A(3)) are held in Wales.
> (2D) Sub-paragraph (3) applies in relation to local authorities in England and local authorities in Wales.

;

- (c) in sub-paragraph (3), in paragraph (a), after “Secretary of State” insert “ (in the case of an authority in England) or to the Welsh Ministers (in the case of an authority in Wales) ”;

- (d) in sub-paragraph (3), in paragraph (b), after “(2)(b)” insert “ or, as the case may be, (2B)(b), ”;

- (e) in sub-paragraph (3), in paragraph (c)—

- (i) after “Secretary of State” insert “ or, as the case may be, the Welsh Ministers, ”;

- (ii) after “sub-paragraph (2)” insert “ or, as the case may be, sub-paragraph (2B) ”;

- (iii) in the words after paragraph (c), after “Secretary of State” insert “ or, as the case may be, the Welsh Ministers, ”.

- (11) In paragraph 12, after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

> (1A) Where required by paragraph 9A or 10 to proceed in accordance with this paragraph, the Welsh Ministers shall appoint a body of persons appearing to the Welsh Ministers to possess relevant experience to prepare a syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics.

- (12) In paragraph 13—

- (a) in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b), after “religious education” insert “ or, as the case may be, a syllabus of Religion, Values and Ethics ”;

- (b) in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (c), for “to the Secretary of State” substitute

> —
> (i) in the case of a body appointed by the Secretary of State, to the Secretary of State;
> (ii) in the case of a body appointed by the Welsh Ministers, to the Welsh Ministers

.

- (13) In paragraph 14—

- (a) the existing provision becomes sub-paragraph (1);

- (b) in that sub-paragraph, for “the appointed body” substitute “ a body appointed under paragraph 12 by the Secretary of State ”;

- (c) after that sub-paragraph insert—

> (2) The syllabus prepared by a body appointed by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph 12 shall be deemed to be the syllabus adopted by the authority under section 375A—
>   (a) as from such date as the Welsh Ministers may direct, and
>   (b) until a new syllabus is adopted by that authority under that section.

- (14) After paragraph 14 insert—

> (14A)
>   (1) In exercising functions under this Schedule, each of the persons specified in sub-paragraph (2) must have regard to any guidance given by the Welsh Ministers.
>   (2) The persons are—
>     (a) a local authority in Wales;
>     (b) a conference convened by a local authority in Wales under this Schedule;
>     (c) a body of persons appointed by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph 12.

#### Education Act 1997 (c. 44)

##### 27

The Education Act 1997 is amended as follows.

##### 28

In section 56 (construction), in subsection (1), in the definition of “regulations”, at the end insert “ , except where otherwise stated or where the function of making regulations under this Act has been transferred to the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales ”.

#### School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31)

##### 29

The School Standards and Framework Act 1998 is amended as follows.

##### 30

In section 58 (appointment and dismissal of certain teachers at schools with a religious character), in subsection (1), in the text after paragraph (b), after “in accordance with” insert “ section 68A and ”.

##### 31

In section 60 (staff at foundation or voluntary school with a religious character), in subsection (5), in paragraph (a), in sub-paragraph (i), after “under” insert “ section 68A or ”.

##### 32

In Part 2, in the heading of Chapter 6 (religious education and worship), after “religious education” insert “ etc ”.

##### 33

Before section 69 (and the italic heading before it) insert—

> (68A)
>   (1) For the purposes of this Part and the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 a foundation or voluntary school in Wales has a religious character if it is designated as a school having such a character by an order made by the Welsh Ministers.
>   (2) An order under subsection (1) must state the religion or religious denomination in accordance with whose tenets provision in the school's curriculum in respect of Religion, Values and Ethics is, or may be, required to be designed and implemented under the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (or, as the case may be, each such religion or religious denomination).
>   (3) The procedure to be followed in connection with—
>     (a) the designation of a school in an order under subsection (1), and
>     (b) the statement required by subsection (2),
>   may be specified in regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.
>   (4) Any order made under section 69(3) in respect of a foundation or voluntary school in Wales that has effect immediately before the coming into force of this section continues to have effect until revoked.
>   (5) Where an order continues to have effect under subsection (4)—
>     (a) the order is to be treated for all purposes as being an order made under this section,
>     (b) the school designated by the order is to be treated for all purposes as being designated under this section, and
>     (c) any references in the order to religious education are to be treated as being references to Religion, Values and Ethics.

##### 34

In the italic heading before section 69, at the end insert “ *: England* ”.

##### 35

- (1) Section 69 (duty to secure due provision of religious education) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, after “religious education” insert “ : England ”.

- (3) In subsection (1)—

- (a) in the words before paragraph (a), after “voluntary school” insert “ in England ”;

- (b) in the words after paragraph (b), omit “or 101(1)(a)”.

- (4) In subsection (2)—

- (a) in the words before paragraph (a), omit “or 101(1)(a)”;

- (b) in paragraph (a), after “voluntary schools” insert “ in England ”;

- (c) in paragraph (b), after “voluntary controlled schools” insert “ in England ”;

- (d) in paragraph (c), after “voluntary aided schools” insert “ in England ”.

- (5) In subsection (3), after “voluntary school” insert “ in England ”.

##### 36

- (1) Section 71 (exceptions and special arrangements: provision for special schools) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “voluntary school” insert “ in England ”.

- (3) In subsection (2), in paragraph (a), omit “or 101(1)(a)”.

- (4) In subsection (7), after “foundation special school” insert “ in England ”.

- (5) After subsection (7) insert—

> (7A) Regulations made by the Welsh Ministers shall make provision for ensuring that, so far as practicable, every pupil attending a community or foundation special school in Wales attends religious worship unless withdrawn from attendance at such worship—
>   (a) in the case of a sixth-form pupil, in accordance with the pupil's own wishes, and
>   (b) in any other case, in accordance with the wishes of the pupil's parent.

##### 37

- (1) Section 124B (designation of independent schools as having a religious character) is amended as follows.

- (2) Before subsection (1) insert—

> (A1) Subsections (1) and (3) of section 68A (which relate to the designation of foundation or voluntary schools in Wales as having a religious character) apply in relation to an independent school in Wales as they apply in relation to a foundation or voluntary school in Wales, but as if—
>   (a) in subsection (1) of that section, the references to Part 2 and the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 were a reference to this Part, and
>   (b) in subsection (3) of that section, the reference to subsection (2) of that section were a reference to subsection (2) of this section.

- (3) In subsection (1)—

- (a) after “voluntary schools” insert “ in England ”;

- (b) after “independent school” insert “ in England ”.

- (4) In subsection (2), after “made under ” insert “ section 68A by virtue of subsection (A1) or under ”.

##### 38

In section 138A (procedure for regulations)—

- (a) in the heading, after “under” insert “ section 71(7A) or ”;

- (b) in subsection (1), after “under” insert “ section 71(7A) or ”.

##### 39

- (1) Section 142 (general interpretation) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1)—

- (a) in the definition of “Church in Wales school”—

- (i) for ”Secretary of State” substitute “ Welsh Ministers ”;

- (ii) for “section 69(4)” substitute “ section 68A ”;

- (b) in the definition of “regulations”, for “(except in sections 89 to 90)” substitute “ (except where otherwise stated or where the function of making the regulations has been transferred to the Welsh Ministers in relation to Wales) ”;

- (c) in the definition of “Roman Catholic Church school”, after “section” insert “ 68A or ”.

- (3) In subsection (2), for “the Secretary of State” substitute “ the Welsh Ministers ”.

- (4) In subsection (3), after “under” insert “ section 68A, ”.

##### 40

- (1) Section 143 (index) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the entry beginning “school which has a religious character”, after “school” in the first place it occurs insert “ in England ”.

- (3) After that entry, insert—

| school in Wales which has a religious character |  |
| --- | --- |
| (in Part 2 in relation to a foundation or voluntary school) | section 68A(1) |
| (in Part 5A in relation to an independent school) | sections 68A(1) and 124B(A1) |

.

##### 41

In Schedule 3, in Part 2 (funding of voluntary aided schools), in paragraph 5(12), in the definition of “appropriate schools”, in paragraph (a), after “section” insert “ 68A or ”.

##### 42

- (1) Schedule 19 (required provision for religious education) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading of the Schedule, after “RELIGIOUS EDUCATION” insert “ : ENGLAND ”.

- (3) In paragraph 1 (introductory), in sub-paragraph (1), omit “or 101(1)(a)”.

- (4) In paragraph 2 (community schools and foundation and voluntary schools without a religious character), in sub-paragraph (1)—

- (a) in paragraph (a), after “community school” insert “ in England ”;

- (b) in paragraph (b), after “voluntary school” insert “ in England ”.

- (5) In paragraph 3 (foundation and voluntary controlled schools with a religious character), in sub-paragraph (1), after “voluntary controlled school” insert “ in England ”.

- (6) In paragraph 4 (voluntary aided schools with a religious character), in sub-paragraph (1), after “voluntary aided school” insert “ in England ”.

##### 43

In Schedule 20 (collective worship), in paragraph 5, in the words after paragraph (b), after “section” insert “ 68A or ”.

#### Education Act 2002 (c. 32)

##### 44

The Education Act 2002 is amended as follows.

##### 45

Omit Part 7 (the curriculum in Wales).

##### 46

- (1) Section 210 (orders and regulations) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (6A)—

- (a) omit “or Part 7”;

- (b) omit “unless the instrument contains an order mentioned in subsection (6AB)”.

- (3) Omit subsection (6AB).

#### Licensing Act 2003 (c. 17)

##### 47

The Licensing Act 2003 is amended as follows.

##### 48

In Schedule 1 (provision of regulated entertainment), in Part 3, in paragraph 21, in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (d), after “section 19” insert “ or 19A ”.

#### Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003 (c. 38)

##### 49

The Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003 is amended as follows.

##### 50

In section 24 (interpretation), in the definition of “relevant school”, in paragraph (d), after “section 19(2)” insert “ or 19A(2) ”.

#### Education Act 2005 (c. 18)

##### 51

- (1) Section 50 of the Education Act 2005 (inspection of religious education: Wales) is amended as follows.

- (2) In the heading, for “religious” substitute “ denominational ”.

- (3) In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), for “69(3)” substitute “ 68A ”.

- (4) In subsection (2), in paragraph (a), for “69(4)” substitute “ 68A ”.

#### National Health Service Act 2006 (c. 41)

##### 52

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

##### 53

In Schedule 1 (further provision about the Secretary of State and services under the Act), in paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b), after “19” insert “ or 19A ”.

#### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 (c. 42)

##### 54

The National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 is amended as follows.

##### 55

In Schedule 1 (further provision about the Welsh Ministers and services under the Act), in paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), in paragraph (b), after “19” insert “ or 19A ”.

#### Learning and Skills (Wales) Measure 2009 (nawm 1)

##### 56

The Learning and Skills (Wales) Measure 2009 is amended as follows.

##### 57

Omit Part 1 (local curriculum for pupils in Key Stage 4).

##### 58

In section 46 (regulations in connection with the operation of the local curriculum), in subsection (2), for “Parts 1 and 2” substitute “ Part 2 ”.

##### 59

In the Schedule (minor and consequential amendments)—

- (a) omit the italic heading before paragraph 11;

- (b) omit paragraphs 11 to 20.

#### Education (Wales) Measure 2009 (nawm 5)

##### 60

The Education (Wales) Measure 2009 is amended as follows.

##### 61

Omit section 21 (foundation phase).

#### Equality Act 2010 (c. 15)

##### 62

The Equality Act 2010 is amended as follows.

##### 63

In Schedule 11 (schools: exceptions), in Part 2 (religious or belief-related discrimination), in paragraph 5, in sub-paragraph (a), after “section” insert “68A or”.

##### 64

In Schedule 17 (disabled pupils: enforcement), in paragraph 6A (as it has effect before its substitution by paragraph 19(5)(g) of Schedule 1 to the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2)), in sub-paragraph (7), in the definition of “pupil referral unit”, after “section 19” insert “ or 19A ”.

##### 65

In Schedule 19 (public authorities), in Part 1, in the list of “Other educational bodies”, in the entry for a local authority, after “section 19” insert “ or 19A ”.

#### Education (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 7)

##### 66

The Education (Wales) Measure 2011 is amended as follows.

##### 67

In section 9 (minor and consequential amendments), in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b).

#### School Standards and Organisation (Wales) Act 2013 (anaw 1)

##### 68

The School Standards and Organisation (Wales) Act 2013 is amended as follows.

##### 69

In section 98 (general interpretation and index of defined expressions)—

- (a) in subsection (3), in the definition of “appropriate religious body”, in paragraph (b), for “69(3)” substitute “ 68A ”;

- (b) in subsection (5), for “69(3)” substitute “ 68A ”.

##### 70

In Schedule 5 (minor and consequential amendments), in paragraph 21, omit sub-paragraphs (4) to (6).

#### Further and Higher Education (Governance and Information) (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 1)

##### 71

The Further and Higher Education (Governance and Information) (Wales) 2014 is amended as follows.

##### 72

In section 6 (abolition of duties of further education institutions to comply with directions), omit subsections (3) and (4).

#### Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2)

##### 73

The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 is amended as follows.

##### 74

In section 14 (duties to prepare and maintain plans: local authorities), after subsection (9) insert—

> (9A) If the additional learning provision described in an individual development plan includes provision of the kind mentioned in section 41(1) of the Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021, a local authority may not give directions to the governing body of a school under subsection (2)(b) or (4) in relation to the plan.

##### 75

In Schedule 1 (minor and consequential amendments and repeals), in paragraph 4, omit sub-paragraph (7).

#### Introduction

#### Introduction and interpretation

#### Introduction

#### Duty to make provision about assessment arrangements

#### Duty to have regard to mental health and emotional well-being of children and young persons

#### Status of this Act as an Education Act

### Application

### Community schools and foundation and voluntary schools without a religious character

### Foundation and voluntary controlled schools that have a religious character

### Voluntary aided schools that have a religious character

### Application

### Community schools and foundation and voluntary schools without a religious character

### Foundation and voluntary controlled schools that have a religious character

### Voluntary aided schools that have a religious character

### Education Act 1996 (c. 56)

### Education Act 1997 (c. 44)

### School Standards and Framework Act 1998 (c. 31)

### Education Act 2002 (c. 32)

### Licensing Act 2003 (c. 17)

### Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003 (c. 38)

### Education Act 2005 (c. 18)

### National Health Service Act 2006 (c. 41)

### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 (c. 42)

### Learning and Skills (Wales) Measure 2009 (nawm 1)

### Education (Wales) Measure 2009 (nawm 5)

### Equality Act 2010 (c. 15)

### Education (Wales) Measure 2011 (nawm 7)

### School Standards and Organisation (Wales) Act 2013 (anaw 1)

### Further and Higher Education (Governance and Information) (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 1)

### Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2)

## Editorial notes

[^key-d2018892370414865b368253108ab0bd]: [S. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/1) in force at 29.9.2021 by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/2)

[^key-c50b3fff276d8595bae5d6f95ecc5bc4]: [S. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/2) in force at 29.9.2021 by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/2)

[^key-6c16b500a7309f5cdb55483abfcbd59a]: [S. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/3) in force at 29.9.2021 by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/2)

[^key-5ca53955ccb3eb0aa0033b6cddc4f647]: [S. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/4) in force at 29.9.2021 by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/2)

[^key-be7ca34c6a428ba0cdcb3a673898c7d8]: [S. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/5) in force at 29.9.2021 by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/2)

[^key-c16cbdf9855700f2074fb7ddb2fbbb37]: [S. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/6) in force at 29.9.2021 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/3)

[^key-7fd217bd3656aa45c598cea33c34fc07]: [S. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/7) in force at 29.9.2021 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/3)

[^key-10be9cc4d66539fc87e8df43035ff3df]: [S. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/8) in force at 23.11.2021 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2021/1069](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069), [art. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2021/1069/article/4)

[^key-cafb1b3dbbb66488c7cf98a1c2dd5dd9]: [S. 56(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/56/1) in force at 11.1.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/2/a)

[^key-4792af6383d4a3b6ae2dbfe151dc9802]: [S. 57(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/57/1) in force at 11.1.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 2(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/2/b)

[^key-2d364b4747eeaf88836bb2f1022d11f1]: [Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/part/2) modified (temp.) (13.6.2022) by [The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Commencement No. 3 and Transitional Provision) Order 2022 (S.I. 2022/652)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/2)

[^key-e2505835a26e05333bfc71cd6f3fccd0]: [S. 42](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/42) in force at 14.6.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/3/a)

[^key-ac536a9d16101762e7af3f25d33a32de]: [S. 43](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/43) in force at 14.6.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/3/a)

[^key-e4b0d2196058781ae2e97fe8ff4fcabf]: [S. 69](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/69) in force at 14.6.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/3/b)

[^key-0037b6f552c54efb596297549f89c3ff]: [S. 56(2)-(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/56/2) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/3/a)

[^key-169d8d40e7b30d7ce2c6b83a4a24f71d]: [S. 56(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/56/1) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/3/a)

[^key-e3e785902d16a74c65a1c59f9976b571]: [S. 57(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/57/1) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/3/b)

[^key-a06cf43c0ec60e786d7731098d41fcce]: [S. 57(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/57/2)[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/57/3) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12), [art. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/12/article/3/b)

[^key-28e73385f5ffecb4a9db3fcf19426c92]: [S. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/6) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/a)

[^key-3b1200d02df5a0d8127722cf34acc8f6]: [S. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/7) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/a)

[^key-e1eed33b5fdb506041a4213f9eb5d5f8]: [S. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/8) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/a)

[^key-472db5c95555dcc6fc30e3bad5af12d6]: [S. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/9) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-d5eeaf4a114158a643c0f90790805b08]: [S. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/10) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-607c3db0e106c21fa226953eb4874db2]: [S. 11](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/11) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-1705c4abc0a388e423f608907b90686d]: [S. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/12) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-68d2e4b7c998e9954c74c1e66ad44c3f]: [S. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/13) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-786613974de4c8bdae16fedcce9e1e20]: [S. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/14) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-c66585b61a1f3637df8efb90755dc668]: [S. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/15) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-379dad2da1becc03d4176b8700d86682]: [S. 16](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/16) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-a0057c803470705fd5ba8271752e3c48]: [S. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/17) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-6e849a69c2511975ccedb1c6f10f1860]: [S. 18](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/18) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-550493789420f567d3b454d2072e3cf9]: [S. 19](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/19) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-2e35125317b79ae5fecb8f42236f7411]: [S. 20](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/20) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-ab0ca49568d04d448720e4305424b5e3]: [S. 21](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/21) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-37747a6d1060e0fc160ffff55431dddd]: [S. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/22) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-697d4e855b5d9ef77558c6ec2205488b]: [S. 23](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/23) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-a583bf2cb50a5692a8f60b232d05541c]: [S. 24(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/1)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/2)[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/3)[(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/4) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/a), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-c444fb8b25f21c24a9d54e76fc4b6bb7]: [S. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/25) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/b), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-7f74fc04c972cbf4b7a76616ea263e45]: [S. 26](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/26) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/b), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-b202ff8eb0c89bb0299c70d3f677bee7]: [S. 27](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/27) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/b), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-ccf9c6f7c21cee52261e9deb236fa3bb]: [S. 28](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/28) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/b), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-8e236245b444f7010907060c05372227]: [S. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/29) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/b), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-f20ff64f817b8e8cdfcf098f46c77c13]: [S. 34](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/34) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-8f80fd0e32e3bae7598f2ee7fdb0a9b4]: [S. 35](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/35) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-ee2f9270be9ce4cd0d224d7306da3d8a]: [S. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/36) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-664da623029dbd59c24604f0e5a563ff]: [S. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/37) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-e54cd432ae352d3339831aec087c07fe]: [S. 38](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/38) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-cea263f33fe304604609666dd10ee1a0]: [S. 39](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/39) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-26808cce0763ceb30f9ffcf326a140cb]: [S. 40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/40) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-e5893e2ee94d6d40950193815b21dd72]: [S. 41](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/41) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/c), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-feb7153dcf965ba5aaecc247b2d3a6bf]: [S. 42](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/42) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/b)

[^key-b25015ec52f88bdaa37a4a3d5b09f470]: [S. 43](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/43) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/b)

[^key-d2c4c33f77b63e0402ac854b22fb2335]: [S. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/44) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-7e87ddfd03ab0cadd640c09725e1fba7]: [S. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/45) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-cb501e534cb6279d2c318053cab88e63]: [S. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/46) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-2dc9c5b0588ca687510ade1133d645a4]: [S. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/47) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-0155f03214c23db4092cc3f0f0639802]: [S. 48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/48) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-aba6a35116515bf582a2d24d75db80bf]: [S. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/49) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-b20cec9c9fd5cbea02b3d7fda5bba46b]: [S. 50](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/50) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-2c19bc5ee559a3ba988d34258dc5613b]: [S. 51](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/51) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-a52008c08e7f8fe813ecab27f41fc90d]: [S. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/52) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-7399ca8b0749a470c8dfe1fa2c2428b0]: [S. 53](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/53) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-3edd22ac474cc378f16a4019c16ece35]: [S. 54](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/54) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-dae2e06d24f0408f69c87bc36ba72550]: [S. 55](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/55) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/d), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-e8192a72311179b794dacada742b9f39]: [S. 56](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/56) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/c)

[^key-e255c7e7a925d1092aeeca194fc3cb42]: [S. 57](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/57) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/c)

[^key-94c014d6862f99d3906cd5d6dffccd7e]: [S. 63](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/63) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/d)

[^key-0ff7eb6c4b8b03fcb9aecbfed4212b99]: [S. 64](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/64) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/d)

[^key-a24ccf5ca17966603b26e4431914b797]: [S. 65](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/65) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/d)

[^key-e033a6a60a0b48edee85b403189a01de]: [S. 66](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/66) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/d)

[^key-5fb1f0ddfa8634bb13cca99733c0590a]: [S. 67](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/67) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/d)

[^key-c47b2f3fa1c302ddf37f69fe3b07215b]: [S. 69](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/69) in force at 1.9.2022 in so far as not already in force by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/e)

[^key-0252bb705ccdb47c9a15a6afb6424586]: [S. 70](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/70) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/f)

[^key-a667d743bc7833786800152fbf3dc407]: [S. 71](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/71) in force at 1.9.2022 by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 4(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/4/f)

[^key-e7d5965149164f982c7f7a595c094b34]: [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/1) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-cc37a13e0c9a781d9795794f33b6a6c7]: [Sch. 1 para. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/2) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-35b6446f72eae28faf91366e27089c37]: [Sch. 1 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/3) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-343026695247e4fb8ca0c1d51108fafe]: [Sch. 1 para. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/4) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-99343be367c3f7e436d24398af2dc055]: [Sch. 1 para. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/5) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-abdf7b28034e09738929169bc13af379]: [Sch. 1 para. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/6) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-4cdf0021683f6d24d5aef958f487fb4b]: [Sch. 1 para. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/7) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-d567dbbfc0ba4de6b0fc2d6612622dbf]: [Sch. 1 para. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/8) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-eeb5f8db22d87f5333f0feb7ede8431b]: [Sch. 1 para. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/9) in force at 1.9.2022 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/5/2/e), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/schedule)

[^key-d4791a18c7e30505877c46ae50840970]: Words in [s. 13(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/13/2) omitted (1.9.2022) by virtue of [The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments) (Primary Legislation) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/744)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744), [reg. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/regulation/1/2), [Sch. 1 para. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/schedule/1/paragraph/1/2)

[^key-11244c55ea8749188493617f89a83548]: Words in [s. 14(1)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/14/1/b) omitted (1.9.2022) by virtue of [The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments) (Primary Legislation) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/744)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744), [reg. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/regulation/1/2), [Sch. 1 para. 1(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/schedule/1/paragraph/1/3)

[^key-01cd9547079dee82394bd2b000ecdea1]: Words in [s. 15(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/15/2) omitted (1.9.2022) by virtue of [The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments) (Primary Legislation) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/744)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744), [reg. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/regulation/1/2), [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4)

[^key-b8b4cb6fb542b850f3ffa8d4ccb67db8]: Words in [s. 16(1)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/16/1/b) omitted (1.9.2022) by virtue of [The Curriculum and Assessment (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments) (Primary Legislation) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/744)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744), [reg. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/regulation/1/2), [Sch. 1 para. 1(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/744/schedule/1/paragraph/1/5)

[^key-2a2d7cef39fc01bd32ac160cb9ab207b]: [S. 24(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/1)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/2)[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/3)[(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/4) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-494c1e73bf9b26f0ecc61cfa253afb2a]: [S. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/9) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-702e88a01e9004f6a72fa225d0d2d617]: [S. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/10) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-845e8c7af6dbc342a800e462c1f83dd2]: [S. 11](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/11) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-f0b857580acb5a2e8894c4fec49fccbb]: [S. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/12) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-81b63383c5c8717fa7a6713e728161ae]: [S. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/13) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-d4c9a24dc08cae5d6399d662d1714df9]: [S. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/14) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-0a8aa8a8acc50a3c68de631bf1910930]: [S. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/15) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-d277358bcbf44a235252cf7c0109f8ad]: [S. 16](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/16) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-ceecad1111a9084a43ed88fed8660a82]: [S. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/17) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-e2a62b23368c5ce4361aee96a16994ff]: [S. 18](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/18) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-8cb6d6ae106fc5aa02506a29865639f8]: [S. 19](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/19) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-5adce7153b32f83ad70c38821d1f90af]: [S. 20](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/20) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-65ec893fbc69b6a48569ef5ff0ab611b]: [S. 21](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/21) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-3e3e83e2323763d41fd37b77aa0b47ef]: [S. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/22) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-3ef8a0add03926033d24ba057a000bca]: [S. 23](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/23) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/a)

[^key-815cacd9411877824b0f5eebe7f5cb6d]: [S. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/25) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/b)

[^key-784c9bde71946134cf9182361bddae06]: [S. 26](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/26) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/b)

[^key-295959f3500e647ab16dd8251d1fabbe]: [S. 27](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/27) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/b)

[^key-ee87d7e1c648445aaa2bef4bb77152d9]: [S. 28](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/28) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/b)

[^key-4968d6f8605db171b233a486978a3684]: [S. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/29) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/b)

[^key-a38791f7ad7a14febcdb2f6cde8216df]: [S. 34](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/34) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-6e665bde7c151629f0f7f781a2345b43]: [S. 35](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/35) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-559fd084d3757c9279e46aed78fdf5e1]: [S. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/36) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-fa2d24b4b8e909c67f27e88fe8739d2d]: [S. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/37) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-e8f6be772e75626ed76ba1fda7ec7b8c]: [S. 38](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/38) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-af2b0b34ba57e677e4426fed1e6edf75]: [S. 39](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/39) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-1afd06c539182045100c89201b2b750f]: [S. 40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/40) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-a373daf06e2d798127b081b00602226f]: [S. 41](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/41) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/c)

[^key-5c6d78f5d58cae869b9057b528508c99]: [S. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/44) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-9cb53b6fbafcd748ab94584e98d35619]: [S. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/45) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-642ecf38cb1a03c61a0f6ba859709638]: [S. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/46) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-32e83572888b1e8a50d0a3abf220d245]: [S. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/47) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-9dbd002dd86fd4d12e4a431b6e591d11]: [S. 48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/48) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-a3cf1f2fe5b886727da9065ed5a2dcf7]: [S. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/49) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-0e1b39e99e6b488a5dd7103c3629bb78]: [S. 50](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/50) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-f490cee78f83e99d6c6e844f2cb8b0ab]: [S. 51](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/51) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-0a2ebdca1c688d391b6b71b023c0a9f6]: [S. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/52) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-e9e769d821241d913fbb6a7237b1c8bf]: [S. 53](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/53) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-a7457fcd6ea7ced1fb48233bc4c76a20]: [S. 54](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/54) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-5469aa0099cd2f91547a5707085e8611]: [S. 55](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/55) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/d)

[^key-9543a88e9b4ddc81b050c9db38b4383e]: [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/1) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-7675dca479bd3ccbca94f73dcac0d837]: [Sch. 1 para. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/2) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-e15c6e881189ca68762e85fa8438f017]: [Sch. 1 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/3) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-280f9e8319a50636efc3a167b2ce5a75]: [Sch. 1 para. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/4) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-01f9e8e4920affec434bb930cd1769b2]: [Sch. 1 para. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/5) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-f65e07752b5a5665cc50bbaa39cc0e1b]: [Sch. 1 para. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/6) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-8d723d88ec26d80cc82752df19a196d4]: [Sch. 1 para. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/7) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-89dce1d470cbadc8f01306e5b6d5df64]: [Sch. 1 para. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/8) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-dbc8d82c2574651932125fe021e739c7]: [Sch. 1 para. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/9) in force at 1.9.2023 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/1)[(2)(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/6/2/e)

[^key-bbcd39e7a53a723e6ab94722651300e1]: [S. 24(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/1)[(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/2)[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/3)[(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/24/4) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-571509851f6b62c2e51e51539908901b]: [S. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/9) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-ac528e1a152a3bc5cb71f1632238f40e]: [S. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/10) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-9c39097376954ef3054ed8366ecf256b]: [S. 11](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/11) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-12ccf737d527c7e26fd0a4ac8caadd48]: [S. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/12) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-8193d63298fce5cbb070e9517200fc4c]: [S. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/13) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-b14a800d2fedf108f6ced0c2e24345b0]: [S. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/14) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-13b6be112d557618f4c6a60ef729d837]: [S. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/15) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-f22e4e36d3a247d7496a5cf7dec730f6]: [S. 16](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/16) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-da75c2c1c319c0b122e985b5ac21b930]: [S. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/17) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-0b71824fe5e5dc0c61ba1c30251c3eac]: [S. 18](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/18) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-076e2e49a4507b40bdd1f45fdf11df5a]: [S. 19](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/19) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-661862fe1aeb08bc0bc783fe5fe50d3f]: [S. 20](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/20) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-9f58c2e9a218f3a3afcfb1af940aabed]: [S. 21](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/21) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-849142155bccb520f4f9095c9a206a71]: [S. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/22) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-f151191ad2af0fb09693baf31dd58d28]: [S. 23](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/23) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/a)

[^key-585067eacae4931531bf8e9ae63fe694]: [S. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/25) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/b)

[^key-99b74f36a2d400f78b2f69c9794d8664]: [S. 26](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/26) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/b)

[^key-ef4da9d5a03dfbbf811b96443e75735d]: [S. 27](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/27) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/b)

[^key-c69817860d8596d3d0cb0bb86b053271]: [S. 28](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/28) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/b)

[^key-81e2b9b8c0e12d89aa268de73b27c129]: [S. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/29) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/b)

[^key-260a127048615c558401688803cbd073]: [S. 34](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/34) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-8e6c3871e917c36f0cb352e8baa8a5b6]: [S. 35](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/35) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-b1267d65c5c59207d05aafe3533c24af]: [S. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/36) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-4bd90ce190c2875878397212c71cca14]: [S. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/37) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-867d5e88b97d143ba2a3b3b4d5ab0d1b]: [S. 38](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/38) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-34dad3b2df82fcd207197d788841764c]: [S. 39](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/39) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-571cc35043b681d28ee4bec6de6c2abc]: [S. 40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/40) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-1d57194497954d0cdac4b731366a9015]: [S. 41](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/41) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/c)

[^key-213598f6268f9e344b2889b8801089d3]: [S. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/44) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-8e4595c5a8d1f23de45b65f2cd63cece]: [S. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/45) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-816ac3e23dc9ef561188d1377ff825ee]: [S. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/46) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-eca4687acadf04b77cb08addca0d36b8]: [S. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/47) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-4b2c15dc7c663aab86e1cb793030c915]: [S. 48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/48) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-5a603d4fb70503c7ed155bd63f59eb54]: [S. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/49) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-65d44d44c95f05323b6727dc8d9f689c]: [S. 50](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/50) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-dcdbd9fd52ae4d77445f6b164effd4ab]: [S. 51](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/51) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-3e9bcdc602387b52b2543f905d551c5a]: [S. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/52) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-93c6c2906993cdf553c361b12644f652]: [S. 53](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/53) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-4d65c7ed3870b375c062c59b62ee99b2]: [S. 54](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/54) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-105e7674e86c4f7df50eb368012bfed1]: [S. 55](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/55) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(e)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/e)

[^key-d9f2eec24ba74dfded7fbe397032de99]: [S. 68](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/section/68) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/d)

[^key-f6feb7f4fc8d6e63553b1aea63e91808]: [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/1) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-ad0ed1ba20c56e7bb642b7e35d477967]: [Sch. 1 para. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/2) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-49d68b5223f08edfd6433662faa6cc23]: [Sch. 1 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/3) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-8f7678180f8816f80fbe88946fada89e]: [Sch. 1 para. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/4) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-20611a1281234a035889c9c87a330b77]: [Sch. 1 para. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/5) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-e58d9c59072bd772ccf3ca0db6feb11e]: [Sch. 1 para. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/6) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-714fd51c9353ff43b32af90a33f60b59]: [Sch. 1 para. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/7) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-569815861665d5f2285e99c413e890e3]: [Sch. 1 para. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/8) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

[^key-9fc521f22734d9c713fd1ce912b51f52]: [Sch. 1 para. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asc/2021/4/schedule/1/paragraph/9) in force at 1.9.2024 for specified purposes by [S.I. 2022/652](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652), [art. 7(f)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/652/article/7/f)

#### The four purposes
