---
title: "Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997"
identifier: "ukpga-1997-64"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1997-11-27"
last_updated: "1997-11-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/64"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to extend the class of prohibited weapons under the Firearms Act 1968 to include small-calibre pistols."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1997"
number: "64"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105464988"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
restrict_start_date: "1997-12-17"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997

#### Prohibition of small-calibre pistols

##### 1

In paragraph (aba) of section 5(1) of the Firearms Act 1968 (which describes a category of prohibited weapons consisting of all firearms less than 30 cm. in barrel length or 60 cm. in overall length, other than specified kinds of firearm) the words “a small-calibre pistol” shall cease to have effect.

#### Consequential amendments and repeals

##### 2

- (1) The Firearms (Amendment) Act 1997 shall have effect subject to the following amendments.

- (2) In section 15 (arrangements for the surrender of firearms prohibited by virtue of section 1 of that Act), after subsection (2) there shall be inserted—

> (3) This section applies in relation to small-calibre pistols with the substitution for the reference in subsection (1) above to section 1 above of a reference to section 1 of the Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997 (prohibition of small-calibre pistols).

- (3) In section 16 (payments in respect of prohibited weapons), after subsection (3) there shall be inserted—

> (4) This section applies in relation to small-calibre pistols surrendered at designated police stations in accordance with the arrangements made under section 15 above with the substitution—
>   (a) for the reference in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) above to 16th October 1996 of a reference to 14th May 1997; and
>   (b) for the reference in that subsection to section 1(2) above of a reference to section 1 of the Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997 (prohibition of small-calibre pistols).

- (4) In section 17 (payments in respect of ancillary equipment), after subsection (6) there shall be inserted—

> (7) This section applies in relation to equipment designed or adapted for use in connection with small-calibre pistols with the substitution—
>   (a) for the reference in subsection (2)(a) above to firearms prohibited by virtue of section 1(2) above of a reference to small-calibre pistols; and
>   (b) for the reference in subsection (3)(a) above to 16th October 1996 of a reference to 14th May 1997.

- (5) In section 18 (Parliamentary control of compensation schemes), for subsection (3) there shall be substituted—

> (3) Subsections (1) and (2) above apply to an alteration to a compensation scheme as they apply to a compensation scheme.

- (6) Section 51 (power to make transitional and consequential provisions, etc) shall apply in relation to the provisions of this Act as it applies to the provisions of that Act.

- (7) The enactments mentioned in the Schedule to this Act are repealed to the extent specified in the third column.

#### Citation, commencement and extent

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Firearms (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1997.

- (2) This Act shall be included in the Acts which may be cited as the Firearms Acts 1968 to 1997.

- (3) This Act shall come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument appoint; and different days may be appointed for different purposes and different areas.

- (4) An order under subsection (3) may contain such transitional provision and savings (whether or not involving the modification of any statutory provision) as appear to the Secretary of State to be necessary or expedient in connection with any provisions brought into force.

- (5) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.

## SCHEDULE
