---
title: "Anguilla Act 1980"
identifier: "ukpga-1980-67"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1980-12-16"
last_updated: "1980-12-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1980/67"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make further provision with respect to Anguilla."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1980"
number: "67"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Anguilla Act 1980

#### Future status and administration of Anguilla.

##### 1

- (1) On such day as Her Majesty may by Order in Council appoint (" the appointed day") Anguilla shall cease to form part of the territory of the associated state of St. Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla; and the West Indies Act 1967 shall have effect as if the events specified in section 13(1) of that Act (power by Order in Council to make changes in law in certain events) included the coming into force of this subsection.

- (2) Her Majesty may by Order in Council make such provision as appears to Her expedient for and in connection with the government of Anguilla.

- (3) Her Majesty may by Order in Council make provision—

- (a) for and in connection with the attainment by Anguilla of fully responsible status;

- (b) for and in connection with the establishment of Anguilla as an independent republic; or

- (c) after such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (a) has been made, in connection with Anguilla becoming a republic;

and an Order so made may make such modifications of any enactment of the Parliament of the United Kingdom or of any instrument having effect by virtue of such an enactment, and such transitional or other incidental and supplementary provisions, as appear to Her Majesty to be necessary or expedient.

In this subsection "modifications" includes additions, omissions and alterations, and references to any enactment of the Parliament of the United Kingdom include references to any enactment comprised in Northern Ireland legislation.

- (4) An Order in Council under subsection (2) may be made at any time after the passing of this Act but, if made before the appointed day, shall not come into force before that day; and no recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty to make an Order under subsection (3) unless a draft of the Order has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

- (5) The Anguilla Act 1971 (which is superseded by this section) is hereby repealed as from the appointed day.

- (6) The repeal effected by subsection (5) shall not affect any Order in Council or appointment of a Commissioner made under the said Act of 1971; but any such Order or appointment may be revoked by or under an Order in Council made under subsection (2).

#### Citation, etc.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Anguilla Act 1980,

- (2) This Act shall have effect, and shall extend to the associated state of St. Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla, notwithstanding anything in the said Act of 1967 or any Order in Council made under it.
