---
title: "Juries (Disqualification) Act 1984 (Repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1984-34"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1984-07-12"
last_updated: "1984-07-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/34"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make further provision for disqualification for jury service on criminal grounds."
last_modified_tna: "2015-08-20"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1984"
number: "34"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Juries (Disqualification) Act 1984 (Repealed)

#### Disqualification for jury service of persons who have served or had imposed on them certain sentences.

##### 1

- (1) The following paragraphs shall be substituted for the second paragraph of Part II of Schedule 1 to the Juries Act 1974 (persons disqualified for jury service)—

> - A person who at any time in the last ten years has, in the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man— served any part of a sentence of imprisonment, youth custody or detention; or been detained in a Borstal institution; or had passed on him or (as the case may be) made in respect of him a suspended sentence of imprisonment or order for detention; or had made in respect of him a community service order.
> - A person who at any time in the last five years has, in the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, been placed on probation.

- (2) This section shall not affect the qualification of any person to serve on a jury in pursuance of any summons to attend for jury service issued under the Juries Act 1974 before the commencement of this Act (whether by notice in accordance with section 2 of that Act or under section 6 of that Act).

#### Short title, repeal, commencement and extent.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Juries (Disqualification) Act 1984.

- (2) In Schedule 14 to the Criminal Justice Act 1982, paragraph 35(6)(ii) (which amends the second paragraph of Part II of Schedule 1 to the Juries Act 1974), and the word "and" immediately preceding it, are hereby repealed.

- (3) This Act shall come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument appoint.

- (4) This Act extends to England and Wales only.
