---
title: "Northern Ireland Act 1974 (repealed 2.12.1999)"
identifier: "ukpga-1974-28"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1974-07-17"
last_updated: "1997-03-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to provide for the dissolution of the existing Northern Ireland Assembly and its prorogation until dissolution; to make temporary provision for the government of Northern Ireland; to provide for the election and holding of a Constitutional Convention in Northern Ireland; and for purposes connected with those matters."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1974"
number: "28"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "1999-12-02"
number_of_provisions: "9"
stats_total_paragraphs: "10"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "7"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Northern Ireland Act 1974 (repealed 2.12.1999)

#### Dissolution and prorogation of existing Assembly and temporary provision for government of Northern Ireland.

##### 1

- (1) Her Majesty may by Order in Council dissolve the Assembly elected under the Northern Ireland Assembly Act 1973; and subsection (7) of section 27 of the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973 (power to appoint day for new elections etc.) shall have effect on the dissolution of that Assembly under this section as if it had been dissolved by Her Majesty under subsection (5) of that section.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) The provisions of Schedule 1 to this Act shall have effect with respect to the exercise of legislative, executive and other functions in relation to Northern Ireland during the interim period specified by or under subsection (4) below.

- (4) The interim period shall be the period of one year beginning with the passing of this Act but the Secretary of State may by order direct that it shall continue until a date after, or end on a date earlier than, the date on which it would otherwise expire (whether by virtue of this subsection or of a previous order thereunder).

- (5) No order under subsection (4) above shall provide for the interim period to continue until a date more than one year after the date on which it would otherwise expire.

- (6) The power to make an order under subsection (4) above shall be exercisable by statutory instrument; and no order shall be made under that subsection unless a draft of it has been approved by resolution of each House of Parliament.

#### Constitutional Convention on future government of Northern Ireland.

##### 2

#### Short title.

##### 3

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland Act 1974.

## SCHEDULE 1

### Legislative functions

##### 1

- (1) During the interim period—

- (a) no Measure shall be passed by the Assembly; and

- (b) Her Majesty may by Order in Council make laws for Northern Ireland and, in particular, provision for any matter for which the Constitution Act authorises or requires provision to be made by Measure.

- (2) No recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty to make any Order in Council under this paragraph containing a provision in relation to which the Secretary of State would be precluded by section 5(1) of the Constitution Act from giving his consent if it were contained in a proposed Measure.

- (3) The power to make an Order in Council under this paragraph includes power to vary or revoke a previous Order made thereunder.

- (4) No recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty to make an Order in Council under this paragraph unless either—

- (a) a draft of the Order has been approved by resolution of each House of Parliament; or

- (b) the Order declares that it has been made to appear to Her Majesty that by reason of urgency the Order requires to be made without a draft having been so approved.

- (5) Any Order in Council under this paragraph, other than an Order of which a draft has been approved by resolution of each House of Parliament, shall be laid before Parliament after being made and, if at the end of the period of forty days after the date on which it is made the Order has not been approved by resolution of each House, shall then cease to have effect (but without prejudice to anything previously done under the Order or to the making of a new Order).

- (6) In reckoning the period mentioned in sub-paragraph (5) above no account shall be taken of any time during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses are adjourned for more than four days.

- (7) References to Measures in any enactment or instrument (whether passed or made before or after the passing of this Act) shall, so far as the context permits, be deemed to include references to Orders in Council under this paragraph.

- (8) Orders in Council under this paragraph may be omitted from any annual edition of statutory instruments required to be prepared under regulations made by virtue of section 8 of the Statutory Instruments Act 1946.

### Executive functions

##### 2

- (1) During the interim period—

- (a) no person shall be appointed or hold office under section 8 of the Constitution Act; and

- (b) any functions of the Head of a Northern Ireland department may be discharged by that department and any functions of any other person appointed under that section may be discharged by the Secretary of State.

- (2) During the interim period any functions of a Northern Ireland department, including functions discharged by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)(*b*) above, shall be discharged by the department subject to the direction and control of the Secretary of State.

- (3) Anything required or authorised by or under any enactment or instrument to be done to or in relation to the head of a Northern Ireland department or any other person appointed under the said section 8 in connection with any functions exercisable by virtue of this paragraph by a substituted authority (whether a Northern Ireland department or the Secretary of State) shall, during the interim period, be done instead to or in relation to that authority.

- (4) Any enactment or instrument shall have effect, so far as may be necessary for or in consequence of the exercise of any functions by a substituted authority by virtue of this paragraph, as if references to the head of a Northern Ireland department or any other person appointed under the said section 8 were references to that authority.

- (5) This paragraph shall not invalidate anything done before the beginning of the interim period; and,

- (a) anything which, at the beginning of that period, is in process of being done by or in relation to the head of a Northern Ireland department or any other person appointed under the said section 8 may be continued by or in relation to the substituted authority;

- (b) any order, regulation, rule, direction, authority, appointment, authentication, approval or other instrument or act effective at the beginning of that period as that of the head of a Northern Ireland department or any other person appointed under the said section 8 shall continue to have effect as that of the substituted authority.

- (6) The foregoing provisions of this paragraph apply to functions conferred by any enactment or instrument during as well as before the interim period except in so far as provision to the contrary is made by that enactment or instrument.

### Subordinate instruments etc.

##### 3

- (1) Where under any enactment or instrument it is a condition for the taking of any step (other than the annulment of any instrument) or the coming of anything into operation that a resolution or motion has been passed or an address presented by the Assembly, then, during the interim period, that step may be taken or that thing shall come into operation without any such resolution, motion or address.

- (2) Any statutory instrument made or coming into operation by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) above shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

- (3) Any statutory rules made or coming into operation by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) above shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament in like manner as a statutory instrument and section 5 of the Statutory Instruments Act 1946 shall apply accordingly.

- (4) So much of any enactment or instrument as makes the taking of any step or the coming of anything into operation conditional on the laying of any instrument or document before the Assembly, or on any lapse of time after an instrument or document is so laid, shall not apply during the interim period.

- (5) So much of any enactment or instrument as makes it a condition for the continuing of anything in operation that a resolution or motion has been passed or an address presented by the Assembly shall not apply in relation to anything done during the interim period or in relation to anything done previously that would, apart from this sub-paragraph, cease to have effect during that period.

- (6) No instrument made during the interim period shall be liable to annulment or capable of being revoked in pursuance of a resolution, motion or address of the Assembly; and no draft of any such instrument shall be laid before the Assembly nor shall any proceedings be taken in the Assembly with respect to a draft of any such instrument.

- (7) Regulations made during the interim period under Article 7 of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 shall not require the concurrence of the presiding officer of the Assembly.

### Parliamentary Commissioner and Commissioner for Complaints

##### 4

- (1) During the interim period any report required to be laid before the Assembly under Article 17 of the Ombudsman (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 or Article 19 of the Commissioner for Complaints (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 shall be laid instead before each House of Parliament; and the reference in Article 18(2)(a) of the Ombudsman (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 to a report to the Assembly shall accordingly include a reference to a report to either House of Parliament.

- (2) During any part of the interim period for which there is no Assembly, any complaint under the Ombudsman (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 may be made to, and referred to the Assembly Ombudsman for Northern Ireland by, a member of the House of Commons; and references to a member of the Assembly in Articles 9, 11, 16 and 18 of that Order shall be construed accordingly.

### Accounts

##### 5

- (1) The accounts and reports to which this paragraph applies shall be laid before the House of Commons instead of the Assembly.

- (2) This paragraph applies to such of the accounts and reports required by section 10, 11, 19, 21 or 22 of the Exchequer and Audit Act (Northern Ireland) 1921 to be laid before (or presented or made to) the Assembly as relate to—

- (a) the period beginning with 1st January 1974 and ending with 31st March 1974;

- (b) any financial year ending during the interim period;

- (c) if part of a financial year ending after the interim period falls within that period, the part falling within that period;

and for the purposes of paragraph (*c*) above those accounts and reports shall be prepared separately for the part there mentioned and for the remainder of the financial year in question.

- (3) The functions of any committee constituted under section 25(8) of the Constitution Act shall not extend to the application of moneys during the interim period.

### Interpretation

##### 6

- (1) In this Schedule—

- “*the Assembly*” means the Northern Ireland Assembly;

- “*the Constitution Act*” means the Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973;

- “*enactment*” includes an enactment of the Parliament of Northern Ireland and a Measure;

- “*functions*” includes duties and powers;

- “*Measure*” means a Measure of the Assembly;

- “*statutory instrument*” means a statutory instrument within the meaning of the Statutory Instruments Act 1946;

- “*statutory rules*” has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979.

- (2) In this Schedule any reference to an enactment is a reference to that enactment as amended by or under any other enactment.

## SCHEDULE 2

### Composition and election

##### 1

The Convention shall consist of—

- (a) a chairman appointed by Her Majesty ; and

- (b) seventy-eight persons (hereafter referred to as "Convention members ") elected in accordance with this Schedule.

##### 2

The Convention members shall be elected by the constituencies which would return members to the Northern Ireland Assembly if a general election to the Assembly were held on the date appointed under paragraph 3 below; and the number of Convention members to be elected by each constituency shall be the same as the number of members of the Assembly to be returned for the constituency in such a general election.

##### 3

The date of the poll for the election of Convention members shall be appointed by the Secretary of State by order made by statutory instrument; and any order under this paragraph may be varied or revoked by a subsequent order.

##### 4

The persons entitled to vote on the poll mentioned in paragraph 3 above shall be those who would be entitled to vote on polls held on the date appointed under that paragraph at a general election to the Northern Ireland Assembly.

##### 5

The following provisions of section 2 of the Northern Ireland Assembly Act 1973, that is to say—

- (a) subsection (3) (voting to be by single transferable vote);

- (b) subsection (4) (deposits by candidates);

- (c) subsection (5) (power of Secretary of State by order to make provision as to conduct etc. of election),

shall apply to the election under this Schedule as they apply to an election of members of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

##### 6

Section 10 of the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1957 and section 3 of the said Act of 1973 (disqualification for membership of Northern Ireland Assembly) shall apply in relation to the Convention as they apply in relation to the Assembly.

### Proceedings

##### 7

The first meeting of the Convention shall be held on such day, and at such time and place, as the Secretary of State may by order direct; and any order under this paragraph may be varied or revoked by a subsequent order.

##### 8

The Convention may appoint committees to assist it in the discharge of its functions.

##### 9

The chairman of the Convention shall not be entitled to vote in proceedings of the Convention or its committees.

##### 10

The proceedings of the Convention and any committee appointed by it shall not be invalid because of any vacancy in the office of chairman or among the Convention members.

##### 11

- (1) Subject to the foregoing provisions, the Convention shall have power to regulate its procedure and that of its committees.

- (2) Subject to the foregoing provisions and any provision made by the Convention under sub-paragraph (1) above, the Secretary of State may give directions for regulating the procedure of the Convention and its committees.

- (3) Provision may, in particular, be made under this paragraph for preserving order in the proceedings of the Convention and its committees, including provision for the exclusion of Convention members from any such proceedings.

##### 12

There shall be provided for the Convention and its members by the Secretary of State such accommodation, staff and services (including provision for the keeping of an official record of proceedings) as the Convention may with the approval of the Secretary of State determine or as may appear to him to be reasonably requisite.

##### 13

For the purposes of the law of defamation the following shall be absolutely privileged—

- (a) the proceedings of the Convention and its committees ;

- (b) any official record of those proceedings ;

- (c) any report of the Convention under section 2(2) of this Act.

### Remuneration and allowances of members

##### 14

- (1) There shall be paid by the Secretary of State to the chairman of the Convention such remuneration and allowance in respect of expenses as may be determined by the Secretary of State.

- (2) There shall be paid by the Secretary of State to each Convention member—

- (a) remuneration, at the rate of £2,500 a year, in respect of the period beginning with the date on which he first attends the Convention (or a committee thereof) and ending with the dissolution of the Convention or such later date (not more than six months after the dissolution) as the Secretary of State may determine ; and

- (b) such allowance as the Secretary of State may determine—

- (i) in respect of expenses incurred by the member in travelling to and from meetings of the Convention or its committees ; and

- (ii) to defray expenses incurred by the member on secretarial assistance in carrying out his duties as a member.

- (3) Any determination of the Secretary of State under sub-paragraph (1) or (2)(b) above shall require the consent of the Minister for the Civil Service.

### Duration of Convention

##### 15

- (1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the Convention shall be dissolved—

- (a) on the date on which its final report is laid before Parliament; or

- (b) on the expiration of the period of six months beginning with the date on which it first meets,

whichever is the earlier.

- (2) The Secretary of State may by order postpone or further postpone the date of dissolution of the Convention for such period (not exceeding three months at a time) as may be specified in the order.

- (3) Her Majesty may by Order in Council dissolve the Convention before the time when it would be dissolved under sub-paragraph (1) above.

- (4) If at any time within six months after the dissolution of the Convention (whether by virtue of the foregoing provisions or of those provisions as applied by sub-paragraph (5) below) it appears to the Secretary of State that it is desirable that any matter should be considered or further considered by the Convention, he may reconvene it as if it had not been dissolved ; and the Convention shall meet on such day, and at such time and place, as the Secretary of State may by order direct and consider (or further consider) and report on that matter accordingly.

- (5) Sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) above shall apply to the Convention after it has been reconvened under sub-paragraph (4) above as if the report made by it in accordance with that sub-paragraph were its final report and as if the date on which it meets in accordance with that paragraph were its first meeting.

- (6) Any order under sub-paragraph (2) above shall be made by statutory instrument subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament; and any order under sub-paragraph (4) above may be varied or revoked by a subsequent order.

- (7) Where the Convention has been reconvened under this paragraph—

- (a) paragraph 14(2)(a) above shall apply also in relation to the reconvened Convention ; and

- (b) section 2(4) of this Act shall have effect as if the reference to the dissolution of the Convention were a reference to its dissolution after the occasion (ox, if more than one, the last occasion) on which it was reconvened.

#### Dissolution and prorogation of existing Assembly and temporary provision for government of Northern Ireland.

## Editorial notes

[^c705257]: Act wholly in force at Royal Assent

[^c705258]: Act excluded by [Ports Act 1991 (c. 52, SIF 58)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/52), [s. 41(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/52/section/41/3).

[^c705267]: [1973 c. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/17).

[^c705268]: [1973 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36).

[^c705269]: [S. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/2) repealed by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/3)

[^c705270]: [S. 1(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/3) amended by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [s. 2(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/section/2/5), [Sch. 1 Pt. I paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/part/I/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/part/I/paragraph/3)

[^c705271]: Interim period extended until 16.7.1978 by [S.I. 1977/1165](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1977/1165) and continued until 16.7.1991 by virtue of [S.I. 1990/1442](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1990/1442), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1990/1442/article/2)

[^c705272]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4) amended by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [s. 2(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/section/2/5), [Sch. 1 Pt. I paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/part/I/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/part/I/paragraph/3)

[^c705273]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): s. 1(4) power exercised by [S.I.1991/1538](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1538). For previous exercises of this power, see Index to Government Orders.

[^c705274]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4) interim period extended until 17.7.1992 by [S.I. 1991/1538](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1538), [art.2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1538/article/2).

[^c705275]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4) interim period extended (14.7.1992) until 16.7.1993 by [S.I. 1992/1702](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1992/1702), [art.2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1992/1702/article/2)

[^c705276]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (13.7.1993) until 16.7.1994 by [S.I. 1993/1753](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1993/1753), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1993/1753/article/2) [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (4.7.1994) until 16.7.1995 by [S.I. 1994/1772](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1994/1772), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1994/1772/article/2) [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (14.7.1995) until 16.7.1996) by [S.I. 1995/1895](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1995/1895), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1995/1895/article/2) [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (2.7.1996) until 16.7.1997 by [S.I. 1996/1748](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/1748), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/1748/article/2) [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (11.7.1997) until 16.7.1998 by [S.I. 1997/1960](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1997/1960), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1997/1960/article/2) [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period extended (9.7.1998) until 16.7.1999 by [S.I. 1998/1677](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1677), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1677/article/2)

[^c705277]: [S. 1(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/1/4): interim period continued (14.7.1999) until 16.7.2000 by [S.I. 1999/2000](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/2000), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/2000/article/2)

[^c705278]: [S. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/section/2) repealed by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/3)

[^c705279]: [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1): power to suspend conferred by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [s. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/section/2/1)

[^c705368]: [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1) amended by [Criminal Justice Act 1988 (c. 33, SIF 39:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33), [ss. 123(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33/section/123/6), [168(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33/section/168/1), [Sch. 8 para. 16](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33/schedule/8/paragraph/16)

[^c705369]: [Sch. 1 para 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1): for previous exercises of this power see Index to Government Orders.

[^c705370]: [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1) power exercised by [S.I. 1991/196](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/196), 1991/197, 1991/759, 1991/760, 1991/761, 1991/762, 1991/764, 1991/765, 1991/1219, 1991/1220, 1991/1462, 1991/1466, 1991/1707, 1991/1708, 1991/1711, 1991/1712, 1991/1713, 1991/1714, 1991/1721, 1991/2292, 1991/2294, 1991/2628, 1991/2631. [Sch. 1 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1): Sch. 1 para. 1 power exercised (19.12.1991) by [S.I.1991/2872](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/2872)

[^c705371]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/1)(*a*) restricted by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 4(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/4/1/a)

[^c705372]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by [Theft Act 1978 (c. 31, SIF 39:6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1978/31), [s. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1978/31/section/6), [Protection of Children Act 1978 (c.37, SIF 39:5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1978/37), [s. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1978/37/section/8), [Social Security Act 1979 (c.18, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1979/18), [s. 19](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1979/18/section/19), [Credit Unions Act 1979 (c.34, SIF 55:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1979/34), [s. 32(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1979/34/section/32/4), [Bees Act 1980 (c.12, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1980/12), [s. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1980/12/section/4); [Social Security (No. 2) Act 1980 (c.39, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1980/39), [s. 7(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1980/39/section/7/5), [Social Security Act 1981 (c.33, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/33), [s. 8(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/33/section/8/2), [Disabled Persons Act 1981 (c.43, SIF 81:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/43), [s. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/43/section/8), [Transport Act 1981 (c.56, SIF 107:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/56), [s. 41(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/56/section/41/3), [Social Security (Contributions) Act 1982 (c.2, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/2), [s. 4(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/2/section/4/5), [Social Security and Housing Benefits Act 1982 (c.24, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/24), [s. 48(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/24/section/48/2), [Firearms Act 1982 (c.31, SIF 51:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/31), [s. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/31/section/3), [Forfeiture Act 1982 (c.34, SIF 116:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/34), [s. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/34/section/6), [Transport Act 1982 (c.49, SIF 107:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/49), [s. 71](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/49/section/71), [Health and Social Services and Social Security Adjudications Act 1983 (c.41, SIF 113:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/41), [s. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/41/section/25), [Sch. 8 para. 31(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/41/schedule/8/paragraph/31/6), [Child Abduction Act 1984 (c.37, SIF 39:4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/37), [s. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/37/section/12), [Health and Social Security Act 1984 (c.48, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/48), [s. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/48/section/25), [Friendly Societies Act 1984 (c.62, SIF 55:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/62), [s. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/62/section/3), [Milk (Cessation of Production) Act 1985 (c.4, SIF 53:1, 2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/4), [s. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/4/section/6), [Rent Amendment Act 1985 (c.24, SIF 75:3, 4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/24), [s. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/24/section/2), [Further Education Act 1985 (c.47, SIF 41:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/47), [s. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/47/section/5), [Social Security Act 1985 (c.53, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/53), [s. 30](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/53/section/30), [Administration of Justice Act 1985 (c.61, SIF 98:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/61), [s. 68(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/61/section/68/4), [Wages Act 1986 (c.48, SIF 43:2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/48), [s. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/48/section/29), [Agriculture Act 1986 (c.49, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [s. 18(13)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/18/13), [Social Security Act 1986 (c.50, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/50), [s. 81](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/50/section/81), [Education (No. 2) Act 1986 (c.61, SIF 41:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/61), [s. 47(11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/61/section/47/11), [National Health Service Amendment Act 1986 (c.66, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/66), [s. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/66/section/7/a), [Social Fund (Maternity and Funeral Expenses) Act 1987 (c.7, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/7), [s. 2(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/7/section/2/2), [Crossbows Act 1987 (c.32, SIF 39:2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/32), [s. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/32/section/7), [AIDS (Control) Act 1987 (c.33, SIF 100:1, 2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/33), [s. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/33/section/2), [Criminal Justice Act 1987 (c.38, SIF 39:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/38), [s. 13(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/38/section/13/1), [Consumer Protection Act 1987 (c.43, SIF 109:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/43), [s. 49(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/43/section/49/3), [Finance (No. 2) Act 1987 (c.51, SIF 99:5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/51), [s. 102(8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/51/section/102/8), [Farm Land and Rural Development Act 1988 (c.16, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/16), [s. 4(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/16/section/4/3), [Employment Act 1988 (c.19, SIF 43:5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/19), [s. 34(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/19/section/34/4), [Scotch Whisky Act 1988 (c.22, SIF 109:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/22), [s. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/22/section/4), [Motor Vehicles (Wearing of Rear Seat Belts by Children) Act 1988 (c.23, SIF 107:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/23), [s. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/23/section/2), [Malicious Communications Act 1988 (c.27, SIF 39:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/27), [s. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/27/section/2), [Criminal Justice Act 1988 (c.33, SIF 39:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33), [s. 168(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/33/section/168/1), [Education Reform Act 1988 (c.40, SIF 41:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/40), [ss. 208](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/40/section/208), [217](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/40/section/217), [Firearms (Amendment) Act 1988 (c.45, SIF 51:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/45), [s. 26(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/45/section/26/1), [Health and Medicines Act 1988 (c.49, SIF 84, 100:1, 2, 113:2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/49), [s. 27(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1988/49/section/27/1), [Social Security Act 1989 (c.24, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/24), [s. 32](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/24/section/32), [Human Organ Transplants Act 1989 (c.31, SIF 83:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/31), [s. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/31/section/6), [Employment Act 1989 (c.38, SIF 43:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/38), [s. 27(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/38/section/27/1), [Companies Act 1989 (c.40, SIF 27)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/40), [s. 214(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/40/section/214/1), [Pensions (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1990 (c.7, SIF 101A:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/7), [s. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/7/section/12), [Social Security Act 1990 (c.27, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/27), [s. 22(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/27/section/22/1/a), [Finance Act 1990 (c.29, SIF 99:5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/29), [s. 128(8)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/29/section/128/8/a), [Employment Act 1990 (c. 38, SIF 43:5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/38), [s. 17(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/38/section/17/1), [Courts and Legal Services Act 1990 (c.41, SIF 34, 37, 76, 82)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/41), [s. 122](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/41/section/122) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by [Statutory Sick Pay Act 1991 (c. 3, SIF 113:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/3), [s. 4(5)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/3/section/4/5/a). [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by [Census (Confidentiality) Act 1991 (c. 6, SIF 105)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/6), [s. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/6/section/2/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (N.I.) (11. 11. 1991) by [Children and Young Persons (Protection from Tobacco) Act 1991 (c. 23, SIF 20)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/23), [s. 8(6)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/23/section/8/6/a). [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by Social Security (Contributions ) Act 1991 (c. 42 SIF 113:1), s. 5(a). [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by [Child Support Act 1991 (c. 48, SIF 20)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/48), [s. 56(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/48/section/56/1) (with [s. 9(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/48/section/9/2)). [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded by [Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 (c. 65, SIF 4:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/65), [s. 8(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/65/section/8/a).

[^c705373]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (6.3.1992) by [Offshore Safety Act 1992 (c. 15)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/15), [s. 6(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/15/section/6/a)

[^c705374]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.3.1992) by Medicinal Products: Prescription by [Nurses etc. Act 1992 (c. 28)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/28), [s. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/28/section/4/a)

[^c705375]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.3.1992) by Still-[Birth (Definition) Act 1992 (c. 29)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/29), [s. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/29/section/3/a)

[^c705376]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.3.1992) by [Firearms (Amendment) Act 1992 (c. 31)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/31), [s. 2(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/31/section/2/2/a)

[^c705377]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.3.1992) by [Social Security (Mortgage Interest Payments) Act 1992 (c. 33)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/33), [s. 2(7)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/33/section/2/7/a)

[^c705378]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.3.1992) by [Competition and Services (Utilities) Act 1992 (c. 43)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/43), [s. 54(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/43/section/54/1/a)

[^c705379]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (17.12.1992) by [Civil Service (Management Functions) Act 1992 (c. 61)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/61), [s. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/61/section/3/a)

[^c705380]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (29.1.1993) by [1993 c. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/3), [s. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/3/section/3/a)

[^c705381]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (E.W.) (27.7.1993) by [1993 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/36), [ss. 78(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/36/section/78/2), [79(12)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/36/section/79/12/a)

[^c705382]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (27.7.1993) by [1993 c. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/37), [s. 63(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1993/37/section/63/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (10.2.1994) by [1994 c. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/1), [s. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/1/section/4/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (10.2.1994) by [1994 c. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/2), [s. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/2/section/4/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (5.7.1994) by [1994 c. 18](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/18), [s. 14(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/18/section/14/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.9.1994) by [1994 c. 31](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/31), [s. 3(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1994/31/section/3/2/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (1.5.1995) by [1995 c. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/4), [s. 159(3)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/4/section/159/3/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (28.6.1995) by [1995 c. 18](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/18), [s. 39(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/18/section/39/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (19.7.1995) by [1995 c. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/25), [s. 125(6)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/25/section/125/6/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (19.7.1995) by [1995 c. 26](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/26), [s. 179(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/26/section/179/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (19.7.1995) by [1995 c. 31](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/31), [s. 13(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/31/section/13/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (19.7.1995) by [1995 c. 34](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/34), [s. 29(1)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/34/section/29/1/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (8.11.1995) by [1995 c. 42](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/42), [s. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/42/section/17) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (N.I.)(22.5.1996) by [1996 c. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/15), [s. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/15/section/3/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (4.7.1996) by [1996 c. 30](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/30), [s. 6(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/30/section/6/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (24.7.1996) by [1996 c. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/52), [s. 226(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/52/section/226/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (24.7.1996) by [1996 c. 53](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/53), [s. 149(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/53/section/149/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (18.12.1996) by [1996 c. 62](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/62), [s. 5(3)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/62/section/5/3/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (29.4.1996) by [1996 c. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/9), [s. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1996/9/section/2/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (19.3.1997) by [1997 c. 27](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/27), [s. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/27/section/25) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.3.1997) by [1997 c. 40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/40), [s. 13(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/40/section/13/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.3.1997) by [1997 c. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/46), [s. 38(1)(a)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/46/section/38/1/a/2) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.3.1997) by [1997 c. 42](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/42), [s. 7(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/42/section/7/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.3.1997) by [1997 c. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/47), [s. 23(4)(a)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/47/section/23/4/a/5) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (15.7.1997) by [1997 c. 56](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/56), [s. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/56/section/2/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (27.1.1998) by [1998 c. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/1), [s. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/1/section/4/a) (which Act itself was repealed (13.8.1998) by [1998 c. 30](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/30), [s. 44(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/30/section/44/2), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/30/schedule/4); [S.I. 1998/2004](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/2004), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/2004/article/2) and so the exclusion fell) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (8.4.1998) by [1998 c. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/8), [s. 16(4)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/8/section/16/4/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (21.5.1998) by [1998 c. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/14), [s. 85(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/14/section/85/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (2.7.1998) by [1998 c. 23](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/23), [s. 17(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/23/section/17/a); [S.I. 1999/1547](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1547), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1547/article/2) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (2.7.1998) by [1998 c. 24](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/24), [s. 4(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/24/section/4/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (16.7.1998) by [1998 c. 30](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/30), [s. 45(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/30/section/45/a) [Sch. 1 para. 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (N.I.)(30.9.1998) by [1998 c. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/37), [s. 118(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/37/section/118/a); [S.I. 1998/2327](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/2327), [art. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/2327/article/2/1)(with arts. 5-8)

[^c705383]: [Sch. 1 para 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (27.7.1999) by [1999 c. 26](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1999/26), [s. 46(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1999/26/section/46/2) [Sch. 1 para 1(4)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/1/4/5) excluded (N.I.) (11.11.1999) by [1999 c. 30](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1999/30), [s. 87](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1999/30/section/87)

[^c705396]: [1946 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1946/36).

[^c705397]: [Sch. 1 para. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/2/1)(*a*) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/5/1)

[^c705398]: [Sch. 1 para. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/2/1)(*b*) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 5(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/5/3)

[^c705399]: [Sch. 1 para. 2(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/2/2) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 5(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/5/3)

[^c705400]: [Sch. 1 para. 3(1)–(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/3/1) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 6(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/6/1)

[^c705403]: [1946 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1946/36).

[^c705407]: Words substituted by [S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1979/1573), [Sch. 4 para. 14(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1979/1573/schedule/4/paragraph/14/a)

[^c705412]: [Sch. 1 paras. 4(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/4/1), [5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/5/1) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 7(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/7/1)

[^c705413]: Words in [Sch. 1 para. 4(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/4/1) substituted (16.7.1996) by [S.I. 1996/1298](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/1298) (NI 8), art. 21(1), Sch. 5

[^c705414]: Words in [Sch. 1 para. 4(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/4/1) substituted (16.7.1996) by [S.I. 1996/1297](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/1297) (NI 7), art. 23(1), Sch. 4

[^c705416]: [Sch. 1 para. 4(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/4/2) substituted (16.7.1996) by [S.I. 1996/1298](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1996/1298) (NI 8), art. 21(1), Sch. 5

[^c705417]: [Sch. 1 paras. 4(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/4/1), [5(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/5/1) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 7(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/7/1)

[^c705418]: [1921 c. 2 (N.I.)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/apni/1921/2)

[^c705419]: [Sch. 1 para. 5(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/1/paragraph/5/3) excluded by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c.38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 1 para. 7(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/1/paragraph/7/2)

[^c705424]: [1973 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36).

[^c705425]: [1946 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1946/36).

[^c705426]: Words substituted by [S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1979/1573), [Sch. 4 para. 14(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1979/1573/schedule/4/paragraph/14/b)

[^c705427]: [Sch. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/28/schedule/2) repealed by [Northern Ireland Act 1982 (c. 38, SIF 29:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/38/schedule/3)
