---
title: "Secure 16 to 19 Academies Act 2026"
identifier: "ukpga-2026-5"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2026-02-12"
last_updated: "2026-02-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2026/5"
department: "Statute Law Database"
last_modified_tna: "2026-02-24"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2026"
number: "5"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105703099"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Secure 16 to 19 Academies Act 2026

#### Secure 16 to 19 Academies (funding, impact and consultation)

##### 1

- (1) The Academies Act 2010 is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 2 (payments under Academy agreements), after subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) Subsection (2) applies to an Academy agreement in respect of a secure 16 to 19 Academy as though the references to 7 years were references to 2 years.

- (3) In section 9 (impact: new and expanded educational institutions), in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) (and on a new line) insert—

> except where the institution, if the arrangements are entered into, is to be a secure 16 to 19 Academy.

- (4) In section 10 (consultation: new and expanded educational institutions)—

- (a) after subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) But where the educational institution, if the arrangements are entered into, is to be a secure 16 to 19 Academy—
>   (a) the person is not required to carry out a consultation on that question, and
>   (b) they must instead carry out a consultation on the question of how they should cooperate with potential local partners in connection with the establishment and carrying on of the Academy.
> (2B) “Potential local partners” in subsection [(2A)](#p00133)[(b)](#p00140) means—
>   (a) persons exercising functions of a public nature, and
>   (b) so far as not falling within paragraph (a), proprietors of educational institutions,
> with whom the person carrying out the consultation thinks it appropriate to cooperate.

;

- (b) in subsection (3), for “The consultation” substitute “A consultation under this section”.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to England and Wales.

- (2) This Act comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act may be cited as the Secure 16 to 19 Academies Act 2026.
