---
title: "Travel Concessions Act 1964"
identifier: "ukpga-1964-95"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1964-12-17"
last_updated: "1964-12-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1964/95"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to remove certain restrictions on the power of local authorities to make arrangements for the granting of travel concessions and to adjust the class of persons to whom such concessions may be granted on the raising of the school age."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-26"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1964"
number: "95"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Travel Concessions Act 1964

#### Travel concessions.

##### 1

- (1) Any local authority operating a public service vehicle undertaking may make arrangements for the granting of travel concessions to qualified persons travelling on the public service vehicles run by the authority or any of those vehicles to which the arrangements relate, whether or not the concessions are established travel concessions within the meaning of section 1 of the Public Service Vehicles (Travel Concessions) Act 1955.

- (2) Accordingly the following provisions of that Act, namely—

- (a) the word " established " in subsection (1) of section 1;

- (b) subsection (3) of section 1; and

- (c) the Schedule;

are hereby repealed.

- (3) On the extension of the compulsory school age (in Scotland school age) to sixteen years, that is to say—

- (a) in England and Wales, on the coming into force of an Order in Council under section 35 of the Education Act 1944; and

- (b) in Scotland, on the coming into force of regulations under section 32 of the Education (Scotland) Act 1962;

subsection (2) of section 1 of the said Act of 1955 (which defines the expression " qualified persons ") shall have effect as if in paragraph (b) and paragraph (c) thereof for the word " fifteen " there were substituted the word " sixteen ".

- (4) There shall be defrayed out of moneys provided by Parliament any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable out of moneys so provided by way of Rate-deficiency Grant or Exchequer Equalisation Grant under the enactments relating to local government in England and Wales or in Scotland.

#### Short title, citation, construction and extent.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Travel Concessions Act 1964 and this Act and the Public Service Vehicles (Travel Concessions) Act 1955 may be cited together as the Travel Concessions Acts 1955 and 1964.

- (2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Public Service Vehicles (Travel Concessions) Act 1955.

- (3) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.
