---
title: "Rate Support Grants Act 1987 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1987-5"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1987-03-12"
last_updated: "1987-03-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/5"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make further provision as to the calculation of entitlement to block grant under Part VI of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980."
last_modified_tna: "2015-08-19"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1987"
number: "5"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2004-07-22"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Rate Support Grants Act 1987 (repealed)

#### Exclusion of adjustments of block grant by reference to total expenditure or aggregate amount available.

##### 1

- (1) For the year beginning on 1st April 1987 and any subsequent year the Secretary of State, in the exercise of his powers under Part VI of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980—

- (a) may determine principles for calculating grant-related poundages for the Rate Support Grant Report and any supplementary report on the basis of such assumptions as he thinks fit about the total expenditure of local authorities and the Receiver for the Metropolitan Police District; but

- (b) in determining such principles for a supplementary report—

- (i) need not take into account information as to the total expenditure which has been or will be incurred by such authorities and the Receiver; and

- (ii) shall not be concerned to ensure that the aggregate amount of block grant is the same as any amount previously calculated as the aggregate amount available for it.

- (2) The aggregate amount of block grant payable out of money provided by Parliament in pursuance of a supplementary report may accordingly be more or less than any amount previously calculated as the aggregate amount available for it.

- (3) Different assumptions may be made under this section in relation to different authorities or different descriptions of authorities.

- (4) In this section “total expenditure” means—

- (a) in relation to local authorities, total expenditure for the purposes of Part VI of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980; and

- (b) in relation to the Receiver for the Metropolitan Police District, the Receiver’s total expenditure, as defined in paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 2 to the Local Government Finance Act 1982.

- (5) Section 62 of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 and paragraph 11 of Schedule 1 to the Rate Support Grants Act 1986 shall cease to have effect except in relation to years beginning before 1st April 1987.

#### Classes of authorities.

##### 2

The references in sections 57(1), 58(1) and 62(2) of the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 to local authorities belonging to the appropriate class shall have effect, and be treated as always having had effect, as references to local authorities of a description which brings them within a class referred to in one or other of the paragraphs of section 53(5), as that subsection falls to be treated for the purposes of section 59.

#### Short title and extent.

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Rate Support Grants Act 1987.

- (2) This Act extends to England and Wales only.

#### Exclusion of adjustments of block grant by reference to total expenditure or aggregate amount available.

## Editorial notes

[^key-a691da00d906062deadde0d8ec2e4600]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/5) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/10) Group 2
