---
title: "Commonwealth Act 2002"
identifier: "ukpga-2002-39"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2002-11-07"
last_updated: "2002-11-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/39"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to amend the law with respect to the Commonwealth Institute; to make provision in connection with the admission of Cameroon and Mozambique to the Commonwealth; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2016-07-12"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2002"
number: "39"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105439029"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2009-10-31"
number_of_provisions: "12"
stats_total_paragraphs: "12"
stats_body_paragraphs: "4"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "8"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Commonwealth Act 2002

#### Commonwealth Institute

##### 1

- (1) The following enactments (which make provision in connection with the management of the Commonwealth Institute) cease to have effect—

- (a) the Imperial Institute Act 1925, and

- (b) the Commonwealth Institute Act 1958.

- (2) The money constituting the capital of the Endowment Fund shall by virtue of this subsection be transferred to and become vested in the company limited by guarantee known as the Commonwealth Institute free from any restrictions as to the purposes for which it must be held.

- (3) In subsection (2), “Endowment Fund” means the fund referred to by that name in the Imperial Institute Act 1925.

- (4) Schedule 1, which makes amendments consequential on subsection (1), has effect.

#### Commonwealth: provision in connection with Cameroon and Mozambique

##### 2

Schedule 2, which makes provision in connection with the admission of Cameroon and Mozambique to membership of the Commonwealth, has effect.

#### Repeals

##### 3

The enactments specified in Schedule 3 (which cease to have effect under subsection (1) of section 1 or are amended in consequence of that subsection) are repealed to the extent specified.

#### Short title and commencement

##### 4

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Commonwealth Act 2002.

- (2) This Act comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which it is passed.

## SCHEDULE 1

#### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)

##### 1

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (departments etc. subject to investigation by Parliamentary Commissioner), the entry relating to the Commonwealth Institute is omitted.

#### Superannuation Act 1972 (c. 11)

##### 2

In Schedule 1 to the Superannuation Act 1972 (which lists the kinds of offices and employments to which section 1 of that Act applies), in the list of “Other Bodies”, the entry relating to the Commonwealth Institute is omitted.

#### House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 (c. 24)

##### 3

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 (offices disqualifying the holder for membership of the House of Commons), the entry relating to the Director of the Commonwealth Institute is omitted.

#### British Council and Commonwealth Institute Superannuation Act 1986 (c. 51)

##### 4

- (1) The British Council and Commonwealth Institute Superannuation Act 1986 is amended as set out in sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

- (2) In section 1 (application of section 1 of the Superannuation Act 1972 to staff)—

- (a) in subsection (1)—

- (i) paragraph (b), and the word “or” preceding it, are omitted, and

- (ii) in the words following that paragraph, for “references to those bodies” there is substituted “a reference to that body”, and

- (b) in subsection (2), for “either of those bodies” there is substituted “that body”.

- (3) In section 2(1) (financial provisions), the following words are omitted—

- (a) “and the Commonwealth Institute”, and

- (b) “each”.

- (4) The provision made by sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) does not affect—

- (a) any pension, allowance or gratuity granted before the day on which this Act comes into force to or in respect of a person by virtue of his employment with the Commonwealth Institute, or

- (b) any right or entitlement to the grant of a pension, allowance or gratuity accruing before that day to or in respect of a person by virtue of that employment.

## SCHEDULE 2

#### The Services

##### 1

In the following definitions—

- (a) the definition of “Commonwealth force” in section 225(1) of the Army Act 1955 (general interpretation),

- (b) the definition of “Commonwealth force” in section 223(1) of the Air Force Act 1955 (corresponding provision in relation to the air force),

- (c) the definition of “Commonwealth country” in section 135(1) of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 (general interpretation),

at the end there is inserted “or Cameroon or Mozambique”.

#### Visiting forces

##### 2

Section 4 of the Visiting Forces (British Commonwealth) Act 1933 (attachment of personnel and mutual powers of command) applies in relation to forces raised in Cameroon or Mozambique as it applies in relation to forces raised in Dominions within the meaning of the Statute of Westminster 1931.

##### 3

- (1) In section 1(1)(a) of the Visiting Forces Act 1952 (countries to which Act applies), at the end there is inserted “or Cameroon or Mozambique”.

- (2) Any Order in Council for the time being in force under section 8 of that Act (application to visiting forces of law relating to home forces) is deemed to apply to the visiting forces of Cameroon and Mozambique until express provision with respect to those countries is made by Order in Council under that section.

##### 4

In the following provisions—

- (a) section 84(2) of the Offices, Shops and Railway Premises Act 1963 (exclusion of application of Act to visiting forces), and

- (b) section 78(2) of the Office and Shop Premises Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 (corresponding provision for Northern Ireland),

after “South Africa” there is inserted “, Cameroon, Mozambique”.

## SCHEDULE 3

#### Commonwealth Institute

#### The Services

## Editorial notes

[^key-3c10daace7478a5cab0b3374aadda2d7]: [Sch. 2 para. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/39/schedule/2/paragraph/1) repealed (28.3.2009 for specified purposes) by [Armed Forces Act 2006 (c. 52)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/52), [s. 383(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/52/section/383/2), [Sch. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/52/schedule/17); [S.I. 2009/812](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2009/812), [art. 3(a)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2009/812/article/3/a/b) (with transitional provisions in [S.I. 2009/1059](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2009/1059))
