---
title: "Job Release Act 1977 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1977-8"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1977-03-30"
last_updated: "1977-03-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1977/8"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to provide finance for job release schemes; and for a connected purpose."
last_modified_tna: "2015-07-16"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1977"
number: "8"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2004-07-22"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Job Release Act 1977 (repealed)

#### Financial authorisation, etc.

##### 1

- (1) There shall be paid out of voted money any sums required by the Secretary of State or the Department of Manpower Services for Northern Ireland in paying during a period for which this section has effect temporary allowances to persons approaching pensionable age, under schemes made and implemented with a view to creating job vacancies and otherwise mitigating the effects of high unemployment.

- (2) The scale of the allowances, the circumstances in which they are to be paid and the conditions of payment shall be such as the Treasury or, as the case may be, the Department of Finance for Northern Ireland may approve from time to time.

- (3) As subsection (1) operates as authority for the payment of allowances during a period it also operates as authority for payment of an allowance after the expiration of the period to a person whose application for an allowance has been approved in the period.

- (4) This section has effect—

- (a) for the period of eighteen months beginning with the passing of this Act, and

- (b) for such subsequent periods as the Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument provide for it to have effect,

but no one order shall provide for this section to have effect for more than twelve months.

- (5) An order under this section shall not be made unless a draft of it has been laid before the House of Commons and approved by a resolution of that House.

- (6) In subsection (1)—

- (a) " voted money " means money provided by Parliament or, in Northern Ireland, money appropriated for the purposes of this Act; and

- (b) " pensionable age " has the same meaning as in the legislation relating to social security.

- (7) Provisions enabling a person to qualify for the allowance by reference to the time within which he or she will attain pensionable age are not, nor ever were, discriminatory for any purpose of the law relating to sex discrimination.

#### Citation and extent.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Job Release Act 1977.

- (2) This Act extends to Northern Ireland.

#### Financial authorisation, et ceteralaetc.

## Editorial notes

[^key-62896e3890a8274d3c4df5013c0d575b]: Act repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), s. 1, [Sch. 1 Pt. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/8)
