---
title: "British Council and Commonwealth Institute Superannuation Act 1986"
identifier: "ukpga-1986-51"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1986-07-25"
last_updated: "1986-07-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/51"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to enable schemes to be made under section 1 of the Superannuation Act 1972 in respect of persons who are serving or have previously served in employment with the British Council or the Commonwealth Institute"
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1986"
number: "51"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# British Council and Commonwealth Institute Superannuation Act 1986

#### Superannuation of staff of British Council and Commonwealth Institute.

##### 1

- (1) The persons to whom section 1 of the Superannuation Act 1972 applies (persons to or in respect of whom benefits may be provided by schemes under that section) shall include persons who at any time after the coming into force of this Act are serving in employment with—

- (a) the British Council; or

- (b) the Commonwealth Institute;

and accordingly references to those bodies shall be inserted at the appropriate point in the alphabetical list of " Other Bodies " in Schedule 1 to that Act.

- (2) That section shall also apply to persons who at any time before the coming into force of this Act have ceased to serve in employment with either of those bodies.

#### Financial provisions.

##### 2

- (1) There shall be paid out of moneys provided by Parliament any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable out of such moneys under the said Act of 1972; and the British Council and the Commonwealth Institute shall each pay to the Treasury in respect of that increase, at such times as the Treasury may direct, such sums as the Treasury may determine.

- (2) Any sums received by the Treasury by virtue of this Act shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund or used as an appropriation in aid for the purposes of section 1 of the said Act of 1972.

#### Short title and commencement.

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the British Council and Commonwealth Institute Superannuation Act 1986.

- (2) This Act shall come into force on such date as the Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument appoint; and different dates may be appointed in relation to the British Council and the Commonwealth Institute respectively.
