---
title: "Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2013"
identifier: "ukpga-2013-12"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2013-03-26"
last_updated: "2014-03-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/12"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the use of resources for the years ending with 31 March 2010, 31 March 2011, 31 March 2012, 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014; to authorise the issue of sums out of the Consolidated Fund for the years ending with 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014; and to appropriate the supply authorised by this Act for the years ending with 31 March 2010, 31 March 2011, 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2013."
last_modified_tna: "2014-12-02"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2013"
number: "12"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105412137"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2014-03-13"
number_of_provisions: "10"
stats_total_paragraphs: "256"
stats_body_paragraphs: "8"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "248"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2013

### Vote on Account for 2013-14

#### Vote on account for 2013-14

##### 1

- (1) The use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2014 is authorised up to the amount of £237,559,140,000.

- (2) Of the amount authorised by subsection (1)—

- (a) £216,006,686,000 is authorised for use for current purposes; and

- (b) £21,552,454,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

- (3) The Treasury may—

- (a) issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

- (b) apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2014 for expenditure authorised by Parliament,

up to the amount of £209,612,302,000.

### Supplementary provision for 2012-13

#### Authorisation of supplementary provision for 2012-13

##### 2

- (1) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2013 is to be treated as reduced by £5,372,811,000.

- (2) In relation to the amount of £5,372,811,000 mentioned in subsection (1)—

- (a) the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for current purposes is to be treated as increased by £974,942,000; and

- (b) the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for capital purposes is to be treated as reduced by £6,347,753,000.

- (3) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred on the Treasury—

- (a) to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

- (b) to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2013 for expenditure authorised by Parliament,

is to be treated as reduced by £2,232,417,000.

- (4) The increase and reductions for which this section provides are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2012.

#### Appropriation of supplementary provision for 2012-13

##### 3

- (1) For the purpose of—

- (a) giving effect to the reduction provided for by section 2(1), and

- (b) giving effect to the reduction provided for by section 2(3),

the Main Estimates Act 2012 is to be treated as having effect with the adjustments provided for in Schedule 1 to this Act.

- (2) Schedule 1 specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as made to the amounts originally specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates Act 2012.

- (3) For the purpose of making the adjustments in Schedule 1—

- (a) a negative adjustment has effect to reduce an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus (which is expressed as if it were itself a negative amount), increases the amount of the surplus; and

- (b) a positive adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

- (4) Accordingly—

- (a) where an adjustment by a negative amount of more than the amount itself is made to an amount of authorised expenditure, what results is an estimated surplus; and

- (b) where an adjustment by a positive amount of more than the amount itself is made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised expenditure.

- (5) Where, in Schedule 1, a description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise (“description A”) differs from the description contained in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2012 (“description B”), Schedule 1 has effect for adjusting that corresponding part by substituting description A for description B.

- (6) Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a Scheduled Estimate in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2012 relates, Schedule 1 contains a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise, Schedule 1 has effect for adjusting that Scheduled Estimate by treating the new description as included in it.

- (7) In this section—

- “*estimated surplus*” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act 2012;

- “*Main Estimates Act 2012*” means the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2012.

- (8) The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2012.

### Excesses for 2011-12

#### Authorisation of excesses for 2011-12

##### 4

- (1) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2012 is to be treated as further increased, for the purpose of making good excesses, by £70,465,000.

- (2) Of the further amount treated as authorised by subsection (1)—

- (a) £62,700,000 is to be treated as authorised for use for current purposes; and

- (b) £7,765,000 is to be treated as authorised for use for capital purposes.

- (3) The increases for which this section provides are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2011.

#### Appropriation of excesses for 2011-12

##### 5

- (1) For the purpose of appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending with 31 March 2012 is authorised by section 4(1), the Main Estimates Act 2011 is to be treated as having effect with the adjustments provided for in Schedule 2 to this Act.

- (2) Schedule 2 specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as made to the amounts specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates Act 2011 and to the amounts treated as so specified.

- (3) For the purpose of making the adjustments in Schedule 2 an adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

- (4) Accordingly, where an adjustment of more than the amount itself is made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised expenditure.

- (5) Where, in Schedule 2, a description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise (“description A”) differs from the description contained in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2011 (“description B”), Schedule 2 has effect for adjusting that corresponding part by substituting description A for description B.

- (6) Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a Scheduled Estimate in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2011 relates, Schedule 2 contains a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise, Schedule 2 has effect for adjusting that Scheduled Estimate by treating the new description as included in it.

- (7) In this section a reference to an amount treated as specified in a Scheduled Estimate is a reference to any amount treated as so specified in consequence of any adjustment made by virtue of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2012, and references to adjusting such an amount are to be read accordingly.

- (8) In this section—

- “*estimated surplus*” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act 2011;

- “*Main Estimates Act 2011*” means the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2011.

- (9) The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2011.

### Late excesses for 2010-11 and 2009-10

#### Late excesses for 2010-11

##### 6

- (1) The use of resources for the service of the year that ended with 31 March 2011 is authorised to the amount of £1,000.

- (2) The amount authorised by subsection (1) is appropriated for the services and purposes specified in Schedule 3.

#### Late excesses for 2009-10

##### 7

- (1) The use of resources for the service of the year that ended with 31 March 2010 is authorised to the amount of £1,000.

- (2) The amount authorised by subsection (1) is appropriated for the services and purposes specified in Schedule 4.

### General

#### Short title

##### 8

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2013.

## SCHEDULE 1

##### 1

In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears in any description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income may arise, the text from the asterisk to the end of the description does not appear in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2012; and where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of such a description, the description concerned is a new description.

## SCHEDULE 2

##### 1

- (1) In this Schedule -

- (a) where one asterisk (*) or two asterisks (**) appears in any description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income may arise, the text from the asterisk or asterisks to the end of the description does not appear in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2011 as originally enacted, and

- (b) where one asterisk (*) or two asterisks (**) appears at the beginning of such a description, the description is a description which was not included in that Schedule as originally enacted.

- (2) Subject to what follows, text which follows one asterisk (*) was added by Schedule 1 to the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2012.

- (3) Text which follows two asterisks (**) is added by this Schedule.

## SCHEDULE 3

#### Late Excesses for Financial Year 2010-11

Table of the resources authorised for use to make good excesses incurred in meeting the costs of the defence and civil services which are specified in the first column of the Table for the year ended with 31 March 2011

## SCHEDULE 4

#### Late Excesses for Financial Year 2009-10

Table of the resources authorised for use to make good excesses incurred in meeting the costs of the defence and civil services which are specified in the first column of the Table for the year ended with 31 March 2010.

#### Vote on account for 2013-14

#### Late Excesses for Financial Year 2010-11

Table of the resources authorised for use to make good excesses incurred in meeting the costs of the defence and civil services which are specified in the first column of the Table for the year ended with 31 March 2011

#### Late Excesses for Financial Year 2009-10

Table of the resources authorised for use to make good excesses incurred in meeting the costs of the defence and civil services which are specified in the first column of the Table for the year ended with 31 March 2010.

## Editorial notes

[^key-05ae2a662de8a03884264b60e2a8ce92]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/12) modified (13.3.2014) by [Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2014 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/5), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/5/schedule/1)

[^key-7eef1bc0cb883aadf30f0585d8dcdc51]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/12) modified (13.3.2014) by [Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2014 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/5), [Sch. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/5/schedule/2)
