---
title: "Northern Ireland Budget (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2019 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-2019-11"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2019-03-15"
last_updated: "2019-03-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/11"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland of certain sums for the service of the years ending 31 March 2019 and 2020; to appropriate those sums for specified purposes; to authorise the use for the public service of certain resources for those years; to revise the limits on the use of certain accruing resources in the year ending 31 March 2019; and to authorise the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland to borrow on the credit of the sum appropriated for th"
last_modified_tna: "2022-06-08"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2019"
number: "11"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105700456"
restrict_extent: "N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2021-08-04"
number_of_provisions: "9"
stats_total_paragraphs: "13"
stats_body_paragraphs: "9"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "4"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Northern Ireland Budget (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2019 (repealed)

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31 March 2019 and appropriation of that sum

##### 1

- (1) The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service of the year ending 31 March 2019 the sum of £16,822,319,000.

- (2) That sum is appropriated for the purposes specified in Schedule 1.

- (3) The authorisation and appropriations in this section supersede those made by section 4 of the Northern Ireland Budget (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2018 and section 1 of the Northern Ireland Budget Act 2018; and, in relation to any amount specified in column 2 of Schedule 1, any increase or decrease by virtue of this section in the amount appropriated is given in brackets after the amount.

#### Use of resources (other than accruing resources) in the year ending 31 March 2019

##### 2

- (1) For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section authorises the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2019 by the persons mentioned in subsection [(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/11/section/2/3/enacted) to the amount of £20,032,419,000.

- (2) In that year, resources may be used by a person mentioned in that subsection for the purposes specified in relation to that person in column 1 of Schedule 2 up to the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that Schedule.

- (3) The persons are—

- (a) the Northern Ireland departments;

- (b) the Food Standards Agency;

- (c) the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

- (d) the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

- (e) the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

- (f) the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

- (g) the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

- (4) The authorisations in this section supersede those made by section 6 of the Northern Ireland Budget (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2018 and section 3 of the Northern Ireland Budget Act 2018; and, in relation to any amount specified in column 2 of Schedule 2, any increase or decrease by virtue of this section in the amount authorised is given in brackets after the amount.

- (5) In this section “resources” does not include accruing resources within the meaning of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act.

#### Revised limits on use of certain accruing resources in the year ending 31 March 2019

##### 3

- (1) For the purposes of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act, this section sets the relevant limits on the accruing resources that may be directed to be used for certain purposes in the year ending 31 March 2019 in addition to resources authorised by this Act to be used for those purposes in that year.

- (2) In that year accruing resources not exceeding the amount specified in column 3 of Schedule 2 may be directed to be used for the purposes specified in the corresponding entries in column 1 of that Schedule.

- (3) The limits set by this section supersede those set by section 4 of the Northern Ireland Budget Act 2018; and, in relation to any amount specified in column 3 of Schedule 2, any increase or decrease by virtue of this section in the amount of the limit is given in brackets after the amount.

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31 March 2020 and appropriation of that sum

##### 4

- (1) The Department may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service of the year ending 31 March 2020 the sum of £11,852,037,000.

- (2) That sum is appropriated for the purposes specified in Schedule 3.

#### Power of the Department to borrow

##### 5

- (1) The Department may borrow on the credit of the sum specified in section 4 any sum or sums not exceeding in total £5,926,019,000.

- (2) Any money so borrowed must be repaid, with any interest due on it, out of the Consolidated Fund not later than 31 March 2020.

#### Use of resources (other than accruing resources) in the year ending 31 March 2020

##### 6

- (1) For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section authorises the use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2020 by the persons mentioned in subsection [(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/11/section/6/3/enacted) to the amount of £13,047,979,000.

- (2) In that year, resources may be used by a person mentioned in that subsection for the purposes specified in relation to that person in column 1 of Schedule 4 up to the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that Schedule.

- (3) The persons are—

- (a) the Northern Ireland departments;

- (b) the Food Standards Agency;

- (c) the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

- (d) the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

- (e) the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

- (f) the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

- (g) the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

- (4) In this section “resources” does not include accruing resources within the meaning of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act.

#### Act to take effect as if it were a Budget Act of the Assembly

##### 7

The authorisations and appropriations in this Act, and the limits set by it, take effect as if they were authorisations and appropriations in, and limits set by, an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly; and accordingly any reference in a statutory provision to a Budget Act of the Assembly includes a reference to this Act.

#### Interpretation

##### 8

In this Act—

- “the 2001 Act” means the Government Resources and Accounts Act (Northern Ireland) 2001;

- “the Consolidated Fund” means the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland;

- “the Department” means the Department of Finance in Northern Ireland;

- “Northern Ireland department” has the same meaning as in the Northern Ireland Act 1998;

- “statutory provision” has the same meaning as in section 1(f) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954.

#### Short title

##### 9

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland Budget (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2019.

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

## SCHEDULE 3

## SCHEDULE 4

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31 March 2019 and appropriation of that sum

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## Editorial notes

[^key-926e2b79f3d37e942f85fa790492dab9]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/11) repealed (4.8.2021) by [Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2021/5), [s. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2021/5/section/5), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2021/5/schedule/3)
