---
title: "Administration of Justice Act 1968 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1968-5"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1968-02-15"
last_updated: "1968-02-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/5"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision with respect to the maximum numbers of Lords of Appeal in Ordinary and certain other judges."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-26"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1968"
number: "5"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
number_of_provisions: "2"
images_dropped: "1"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "1"
---
# Administration of Justice Act 1968 (repealed)

#### Maximum numbers of Lords of Appeal in Ordinary and certain other judges.

##### 1

- (1) The maximum number—

- (a) of Lords of Appeal in Ordinary shall be eleven;

- (b) in England and Wales—

- (i) of ordinary judges of the Court of Appeal shall be thirteen;

- (ii) of puisne judges of the High Court shall be seventy;

- (iii) of county court judges shall be ninety-seven;

- (c) in Scotland, of judges of the Court of Session shall be nineteen;

- (d) in Northern Ireland, of puisne judges of the High Court shall be four.

- (2) Her Majesty may by Order in Council from time to time amend the foregoing subsection so as to increase or further increase the maximum number of appointments which may be made to any of the offices therein mentioned.

- (3) No recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty in Council to make an Order under this section unless a draft of the Order has been laid before Parliament and approved by resolution of each House of Parliament.

- (4) There shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, or out of moneys provided by Parliament, any increase attributable to the provisions of this Act in the sums which, under any other enactment, are payable out of that Fund, or out of moneys so provided, as the case may be.

- (5) The enactments described in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

- (6) In paragraph 1(1) of Part II of Schedule 7 to the Government of Ireland Act 1920 (which provides that the High Court in Northern Ireland shall consist of the Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland and two puisne judges), after the word " and " there shall be inserted the words " not less than ".

#### Short title.

##### 2

This Act may be cited as the Administration of Justice Act 1968.

## SCHEDULE
