---
title: "Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968"
identifier: "ukpga-1968-34"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1968-07-03"
last_updated: "2025-06-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make further provision with respect to the welfare of livestock; to provide for additional payments for certain tenants of agricultural holdings who receive compensation for disturbance in respect of their holdings or whose land is acquired or taken possession of compulsorily or whose landlords resume possession of the land for non-agricultural purposes; to make further provision with respect to the termination of tenancies of agricultural holdings in Scotland acquired by succession; t"
last_modified_tna: "2025-07-23"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1968"
number: "34"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2025-06-16"
number_of_provisions: "53"
stats_total_paragraphs: "56"
stats_body_paragraphs: "34"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "22"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968

## Part I — WELFARE OF LIVESTOCK

#### Prevention of unnecessary pain and distress for livestock.

##### 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Regulations with respect to the welfare of livestock.

##### 2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Codes of recommendations for the welfare of livestock.

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Expenditure on free advice on the welfare of livestock.

##### 4

Without prejudice to the generality of his powers to incur expenditure under the enactments relating to the eradication and prevention of diseases of animals, the Minister may, with the approval of the Treasury, spend such sums as he thinks fit on the giving of advice, free of charge to persons concerned with livestock on matters relating to the welfare of livestock.

#### Extension of classes of operations in which anaesthetics must be used.

##### 5

The Ministers may, after consultation with the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons and with such persons appearing to the Ministers to represent any other interests concerned as the Ministers consider appropriate, by order provide that paragraphs 7 and 8 of Schedule 1 to the Protection of Animals (Anaesthetics) Act 1954 (which exempt certain minor operations from the requirement to use anaesthetics imposed by that Act) shall not permit the performance, either in any circumstances or in such circumstances as may be specified in the order, of such operations as may be so specified.

#### Powers of entry, etc.

##### 6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Punishment of offences under Part I.

##### 7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Interpretation etc. of Part I.

##### 8

- (1) In this Part of this Act—

- ...

- “livestock” means any creature kept for the production of food, wool, skin or fur or for use in the farming of land or for such purpose as the Minister may by order specify.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (5) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## Part II — ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS TO TENANT FARMERS

#### Additional payments to tenants quitting agricultural holdings.

##### 9

#### Provisions supplementary to s.9 in England and Wales.

##### 10

#### Provisions supplementary to s.9 in Scotland.

##### 11

#### Additional payments in consequence of compulsory acquisition etc. of agricultural holdings.

##### 12

- (1) Where in pursuance of any enactment providing for the acquisition or taking of possession of land compulsorily by any person (hereafter in this Part of this Act referred to as an “acquiring authority”), an acquiring authority acquire the interest in an agricultural holding or any part of it of the tenant of the holding or take possession of such a holding or any part of it, then, subject to the provisions of this Part of this Act, subsection (2)(*b*) of section 60 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (additional compensation to tenant for disturbance) shall apply as if the acquiring authority were the landlord of the holding and on the date of the acquisition or taking of possession the tenancy of the holding or part of it had terminated, and the tenant had quitted the holding or part of it, in consequence of such a notice or counter-notice as is mentioned in subsection (1) of that section; and section 61 of that Act (exceptions to section 60) shall not apply in such a case.

- (1A) No sum shall be payable by virtue of subsection (1) of this section in respect of any land comprised in a farm business tenancy within the meaning of the Agricultural Tenancies Act 1995.

- (2) No sum shall be payable by virtue of subsection (1) of this section in respect of any agricultural holding held on a tenancy for a term of two years or upwards except in a case where the amount of compensation payable to the tenant of the holding by the acquiring authority in consequence of the acquisition or taking of possession in question is exceeded by the aggregate of the amounts which, if the tenancy had been from year to year, would have been so payable by way of compensation and by virtue of that subsection; and in any such case the sum payable by virtue of that subsection in consequence of the acquisition or taking of possession in question shall, subject to sections 13(3) and 14(3) of this Act, be of an amount equal to the excess.

- (3) No sum shall be payable to the tenant of an agricultural holding by virtue of subsection (1) of this section in consequence of such an acquiring of an interest or taking of possession as is there mentioned unless the date on which the acquisition or taking of possession occurs is later than the date of the passing of this Act and—

- (a) in the case of such an acquisition, unless the date on which notice to treat in respect of the interest to be acquired is served or treated as served on the tenant by the acquiring authority is after the initial date; and

- (b) where in the case of such a taking of possession prior notice of the taking of possession is by virtue of any enactment required to be served on the tenant by the acquiring authority, unless the date on which the notice is so served is after the initial date.

- (4) If a person is entitled in respect of the same interest in land to a payment both—

- (a) by virtue of subsection (1), and

- (b) under section 33B of the Land Compensation Act 1973 (additional loss payment for agricultural land),

section 33H of that Act (only one payment to be made if a person has dual entitlement) applies.

#### Provisions supplementary to s.12 in England and Wales.

##### 13

- (1) For the purposes of subsection (1) of section 12 of this Act, a tenant of an agricultural holding shall be treated as not being a tenant of it in so far as, immediately before the acquiring of the interest or taking of possession mentioned in that subsection, he was neither in possession nor entitled to take possession of any land comprised in the holding; and in determining for those purposes whether a tenant was so entitled, any such agreement as is mentioned in section 2(2) of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986which relates to the land and has not taken effect as an agreement for the letting of the land for a tenancy from year to year shall be disregarded.

- (2) Section 12(1) of this Act shall not apply where the acquiring authority require the land comprised in the holding or part in question for the purposes of agricultural research or experiment or of demonstrating agricultural methods or for the purposes of the enactments relating to smallholdings, nor where the Minister acquires the land under section 84(1)(c) of the Agriculture Act 1947; but where an acquiring authority exercise in relation to any land any power to acquire or take possession of land compulsorily which is conferred on the authority by virtue of section 226 or 230 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990section 10 of the New Towns Act 1981. . ., the authority shall be deemed for the purposes of this subsection not to require the land for any of the purposes aforesaid.

- (3) The provisions of Schedule 3 to this Act shall have effect for the purposes of section 12 of this Act in its application to England and Wales.

#### Provisions supplementary to s.12 in Scotland.

##### 14

#### Effect of early resumption clauses on compensation.

##### 15

- (1) Except where compensation assessed in accordance with this subsection would be less than if this subsection were disregarded, in assessing the compensation payable by an acquiring authority to the tenant of an agricultural holding in connection with such an acquiring of an interest or taking of possession as is mentioned in section 12(1) of this Act, any provision in the contract of tenancy authorising the resumption of possession of the holding or part of it for some specified purpose other than the use of the land for agriculture shall—

- (a) in the case of an acquisition, be treated as if that provision authorised resumption of possession for the purpose in question on the expiration of twelve months from the end of the year of the tenancy current when notice to treat in respect of the acquisition was served or treated as served on the tenant; and

- (b) in the case of a taking of possession, be disregarded.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) Where the landlord of an agricultural holding in Scotland resumes land in pursuance of such a provision in the lease as is mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, compensation shall be payable by the landlord to the tenant, in addition to any other compensation so payable apart from this subsection in respect of the land, of an amount which is equal to the value of the additional benefit (if any) which would have accrued to the tenant if the land had, instead of being so resumed, been resumed at the expiration of twelve months from the end of the year of tenancy current at a date two months before the date of resumption.

- (4) . . . subsections (4) to (6) of section 11 of this Act shall apply to compensation claimed or payable under subsection (3) of this section, as if for references to sums claimed or payable in pursuance of section 9 of this Act there were substituted references to compensation claimed or payable under the said . . . subsection (3), . . .; and section 12(3) of this Act shall apply to any increase of compensation in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section as it applies to a sum payable by virtue of section 12(1) of this Act as if for references to the said section 12(1) there were substituted references to subsection (1) of this section.

- (5) For the purposes of subsections (1) to (3) of this section, the current year of a tenancy for a term of two years or upwards is the year beginning with such day in the period of twelve months ending—

- (a) for the purposes of subsection (1) . . ., with the date on which the notice mentioned in that subsection is served; and

- (b) for the purposes of subsection (3), with a date two months before the resumption mentioned in that subsection.

as corresponds to the day on which the term would expire by the effluxion of time.

- (6) In the application of this section to Scotland,—

- (a) in subsection (1), for the words from “contract” to “agriculture” there shall be substituted the words “lease entitling the landlord to resume land for building, planting, feuing or other purposes (not being agricultural purposes)” and in paragraph (a) for the word “possession” there shall be substituted the word “land”; and

- (b) subsection (2) shall be omitted.

#### Application of Part II to statutory small tenants in Scotland.

##### 16

#### Interpretation etc. of Part II.

##### 17

- (1) In this Part of this Act—

- “*acquiring authority*” has the meaning assigned to it by section 12(1) of this Act;

- “*the initial date*” means 1st November 1967;

- “*possession*” means actual possession;

- . . .

- “*the principal Scottish Act*” means the Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1949:

and unless the context otherwise requires expressions used in this Part of this Act and the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 or, as the case may be, the principal Scottish Act have the same meanings in this Part of this Act as in that Act.

- (2) In this Part of this Act . . . references to the acquisition of any property are references to the vesting of the property in the person acquiring it.

- (3) Section 95(1), (2) and (3) of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 and section 86(1) and (2) of the principal Scottish Act (Crown land) shall have effect as if references to that Act included references to this Part of this Act.

- (4) References in this section to this Part of this Act include references to Schedules 1 to 4 to this Act.

- (5) In the application of this section to Scotland, in subsection (2) the words from “references to the termination” to “and” shall be omitted.

## Part III

#### Termination in case of near relatives of deceased tenant.

##### 18–20

#### Transitional provisions for purposes of Part III.

##### 19

- (1) In the case of a notice to quit given by a landlord in pursuance of section 6(3) of the Agriculture Act 1958 to the tenant of an agricultural holding who is such a near relative of a deceased tenant as is mentioned in subsection (1) of the last foregoing section, being a notice given between 26th January 1968 and the passing of this Act so as to have effect after the passing of this Act, the said section 6(3) shall not apply and section 25(1) of the principal Scottish Act shall, subject to the following provisions of this section, apply.

- (2) In the case of such a notice to quit as is mentioned in the foregoing subsection, the landlord may, within one month of the passing of this Act, notify the tenant in writing that the said section 6(3) no longer applies to the notice to quit but that, in the event of the tenant serving a notice on him under the next following subsection, he will apply for the consent of the Scottish Land Court to the operation of the notice to quit on one or more of the following grounds, being a ground or grounds specified in the notification—

- (a) the matter mentioned in section 18 (2) (a) of this Act;

- (b) that possession of the holding is required for the purpose of effecting an amalgamation with land specified in the notification;

- (c) the matter mentioned in section 18(2)(c) of this Act;

- (d) one or more of the matters set out in section 26(1) of the principal Scottish Act:

Provided that, if the landlord has not notified the tenant under this subsection within the said month, the tenant shall be deemed to have served a counter-notice under the said section 25(1), and the period of one month referred to in section 27(1) of the principal Scottish Act shall be deemed to have expired.

- (3) The tenant may, within one month of being notified in accordance with the last foregoing subsection, serve a notice on the landlord requiring that the said section 25(1) shall apply to the notice to quit, and such a notice shall be deemed to be a counter-notice served under the said section 25(1) within the period mentioned therein.

- (4) Notwithstanding section 26(1) of the principal Scottish Act, the Scottish Land Court shall consent under the said section 25(1) to the operation of such a notice to quit as is referred to in subsection (1) of this section if they are satisfied with regard to—

- (a) the matter mentioned in paragraph (d), or

- (b) the matters mentioned in paragraph (b) (i) to (iii), or

- (c) the matter mentioned in paragraph (c),

of subsection (2) of the last foregoing section :

Provided that, notwithstanding that they are satisfied as aforesaid, the Court shall withhold consent to the operation of the notice if in all the circumstances it appears to them that a fair and reasonable landlord would not insist on possession.

- (5) Subsections (3) to (5) of section 18 of this Act shall apply to a consent given under the said section 25(1) as applied by this section on the grounds mentioned in subsection (4) (b) of this section, as they apply to a consent given under the said section 25(1) as applied by the said section 18.

#### Interpretation of Part III.

##### 20

- (1) In this Part of this Act—

- " amalgamation " means a transaction for securing that agricultural land which is comprised in a holding to which a notice to quit relates and which together with some other agricultural land could form an agricultural unit, shall be owned and occupied with that other land ; and

- " the principal Scottish Act " means the Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1949.

- (2) Unless the context otherwise requires, expressions used in this Part of this Act and the principal Scottish Act have the same meanings in this Part of this Act as in that Act.

## Part IV

### Drainage charges

#### Raising and levying of drainage charges on an acreage basis.

##### 21–37

#### Amount of general drainage charge.

##### 22

- (1) The general drainage charge raised by a river authority for any year shall be at a uniform amount per acre ascertained in accordance with subsections (2) and (3) of this section.

- (2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, the said amount shall be ascertained by—

- (a) dividing the aggregate amount demanded by the precepts issued by the river authority to the councils of counties, county boroughs and London boroughs under section 87(4) of the Water Resources Act 1963 in respect of the year for which the charge is raised by the aggregate amount of the appropriate penny rate products on the basis of which the amount so demanded was apportioned in pursuance of section 87(3) of that Act among those councils; and

- (b) multiplying the quotient by one penny and by such number as the Minister may specify by order made for the purposes of this paragraph ;

and the number so specified shall (apart from any adjustment made to it to take account of rough grazing land) be such as the Minister considers will secure, so far as reasonably practicable, that the aggregate amount produced by any charge levied by reference to a quotient ascertained in pursuance of paragraph (a) of this subsection will be equal to the aggregate amount which, if the chargeable land in the river authority area were liable to be rated, would be produced by a rate levied on that land at an amount in the pound (of rateable value) equal to that quotient multiplied by one penny.

- (3) Where an amount ascertained in pursuance of subsection (2) of this section includes a fraction of a penny, the fraction shall—

- (a) if it is one farthing or less, be disregarded ;

- (b) if it is greater than one farthing but less than three farthings, be treated as one half-penny ;

- (c) if it is three farthings or more, be treated as one penny.

- (4) An order under this section may be made so as to apply either to all general drainage charges which may be raised by river authorities or to the general drainage charges proposed to be raised by any one or more river authorities specified in the order, and any such order applying to the charges of more than one river authority may make different provision as respects the charges of the different authorities.

- (5) In subsection (2) of this section " appropriate penny rate product " has the same meaning as that expression has for the purposes of the said section 87, and the reference in that subsection to subsection (4) of that section does not include a reference to it as applied by subsection (5) of that section.

#### Amount of special drainage charge.

##### 23

- (1) The special drainage charge raised by a river authority for any year shall be at a uniform amount per acre of the chargeable land included in the area designated for the purposes of the charge by the scheme authorising it, being an amount which exceeds neither—

- (a) an amount to be specified in the scheme as the maximum amount of the charge or such greater amount as may be authorised for the purposes of the scheme by an order made by the Minister on the application of the river authority ; nor

- (b) two shillings or such other amount as may be substituted for two shillings by an order made by the Minister and approved by a resolution of the Commons House of Parliament.

- (2) An order under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section may be made so as to apply either to all special drainage charges which may be raised by river authorities or to the special drainage charges proposed to be raised by one or more river authorities specified in the order or to the special drainage charges proposed to be raised in pursuance of one or more schemes made under section 3 of the principal Act and so specified; and any such order applying to the charges of more than one river authority or authorised by more than one such scheme may make different provision as respects the charges of the different authorities or the charges authorised by the different schemes, as the case may be.

#### Reduced liability for drainage charges in certain cases.

##### 24

- (1) Where the area of chargeable land in respect of which, apart from this section, a sum is payable by any person by way of a drainage charge consists of or includes a fraction of an acre, then for the purpose of calculating that sum the fraction shall be disregarded if it is less than one-half and treated as one acre in any other case.

- (2) The sum payable by way of a drainage charge in respect of chargeable land consisting of commercial woodlands shall be calculated as if the area of the land were one-fifth of its actual area; and in the application of subsection (1) of this section to such chargeable land the area ascertained in pursuance of this subsection (and not the area of which it is one-fifth) shall be treated as the area mentioned in that subsection.

#### Arrangements for payment of drainage charges by owners of land.

##### 25

- (1) A river authority may make arrangements with the owner of any chargeable land for any drainage charges which may be raised by the authority for any period in respect of the land to be levied on the owner instead of on the occupier of the land; and where such arrangements are made the charges in question shall be levied on the owner instead of on the occupier of the land and any reference to an occupier in the charges provisions (except this section) and in Part I of the principal Act shall be construed accordingly.

- (2) Where in pursuance of any such arrangements the owner of any land pays drainage charges in respect of the land to a river authority before the expiration of the period of two months beginning with the date of the service on him of the demand for the charges or before the expiration of one half of the period for which the charges are raised, the authority shall make to him an allowance equal to ten per cent. of the full amount of the charges; but no such allowance shall be made in respect of charges which, apart from this section, are payable for any period by the owner in pursuance of section 13 of the principal Act.

- (3) It shall be the duty of a river authority by whom arrangements are made under this section to give notice of the arrangements forthwith after they are made to the occupier of the land affected by them.

- (4) The owner of any land who is a party to any arrangements under this section in respect of the land may recover from the occupier of the land a sum equal to the amount of any drainage charges in respect of the land which, apart from the arrangements, would be payable by the occupier.

- (5) The occupier of any chargeable land may, by notice given to the river authority in whose area the land is situated,—

- (a) determine that no arrangements under the foregoing provisions of this section shall be made in respect of the land and that any such arrangements previously made shall cease to have effect so far as they relate to the land and any drainage charge to be raised for a period beginning after the date on which the notice takes effect;

- (b) revoke any determination under paragraph (a) above so far as it prohibits the making of such arrangements in respect of the land ;

and a notice under this subsection shall take effect on the day following that on which it is given to the river authority.

- (6) It shall be the duty of a river authority to whom notice is given under subsection (5) of this section to send a copy of the notice to the owner of the land to which it relates.

#### Power to require information.

##### 26

- (1) A river authority may serve on any person appearing to them to be the occupier of any land in their area a notice requiring him to furnish to the authority, within twenty-eight days beginning with the date of service of the notice on him, a return in writing, in such form as may be specified in the notice, containing such particulars as may reasonably be required for the purpose of enabling the authority to determine how much, if any, of the land occupied by him in their area is chargeable land and how much, if any, of it consists of commercial woodlands.

- (2) A river authority may make arrangements with the Minister for the exercise by him on behalf of the authority,

in such cases as may be determined in pursuance of the arrangements, of the powers conferred on the authority by subsection (1) of this section; and any such arrangements shall contain provision for the reimbursement by the authority of any expenses incurred by the Minister in pursuance of the arrangements.

- (3) Subsections (4) and (5) of section 58 of the Local Government Act 1948 and so much of subsection (6) of that section as does not relate to imprisonment (which provide for a fine of twenty pounds for failure or continued failure to comply with a notice under that section requiring information and a fine of one hundred pounds for making false statements in a return to such a notice) shall apply for the purposes of this section as they apply for the purposes of that section.

#### Minor and consequential modifications of enactments.

##### 27

- (1) Part I of the principal Act shall have effect subject to the modifications set out in Schedule 6 to this Act, being modifications consequential upon the charges provisions.

- (2) In section 5(2) of the principal Act (which requires any drainage charge to be raised in the year preceding that for which it is raised), for the words " in the year preceding that " there shall be substituted the words " before or during the year ".

- (3) In section 6(2) of the principal Act (which requires notice of the raising of a drainage charge to be affixed in a public or conspicuous place and published in a newspaper), the words from " affixed " to " and " shall be omitted.

- (4) In section 8(3) of the principal Act (which provides for notice of amendments of drainage charges to be served on each owner and occupier concerned) the words " owner and " shall be omitted.

- (5) In section 9(1) of the principal Act (which provides for appeals to quarter sessions in connection with demands for drainage charges) for the words from " on any ground " onwards there shall be substituted the words " he may appeal to the county court for the area in which the land or any part of it is situated ".

- (6) The references to chargeable hereditaments in section 8(4) of the Water Resources Act 1963, article 10(1) of the Thames Conservancy (New Functions of River Authorities in Thames Catchment Area) Order 1964 and article 5(1) of the Lee Conservancy Catchment Board (New Functions of River Authorities) Order 1965 shall continue to have the meaning assigned to them by the principal Act as originally enacted but shall be construed as including references to chargeable land.

#### Transitional provisions for general drainage charges.

##### 28

- (1) Nothing in the charges provisions shall affect any general drainage charge raised before the date of the passing of this Act, and accordingly the principal Act shall continue to have effect in relation to any such charge as if this Act had not been passed.

- (2) Any river authority who have raised a general drainage charge before the date aforesaid may, if they think fit, determine that this subsection shall apply to the authority for any of the years ending with 31st March 1969, 31st March 1970 or 31st March 1971 in respect of which the authority have not already made a determination under this subsection ; and where an authority have made a determination under this subsection with respect to any year they may raise a general drainage charge for that year as if section 52 of this Act and the charges provisions, except sections 21(2), 27(2) and (3) and 29 and this section, had not been passed.

- (3) A river authority who have made a determination under subsection (2) of this section may, if they think fit, also determine that this subsection shall apply to the authority for the year or years to which the determination under that subsection relates; and where an authority have made a determination under this subsection—

- (a) the principal Act and any regulations under section 2 of that Act shall have effect, in relation to any general drainage charge to be raised by the authority in accordance with the said subsection (2) for the year or, as the case may be, each of the years aforesaid as if—

- (i) section 2(3) of that Act (which defines precept rates) and any corresponding provision of the regulations were omitted; and

- (ii) for any reference to the precept rate for any year in section 2(2) of that Act and those regulations there were substituted a reference to the amount produced by multiplying one penny by the quotient ascertained, for the purposes of the charge for the year in question, in pursuance of section 22(2) (a) of this Act; and

- (b) the excepted provisions mentioned in subsection (2) of this section shall be treated as including section 22 of this Act so far as that section is required for the purposes of sub-paragraph (ii) above.

- (4) A river authority who have made a determination under subsection (2) of this section, or determinations under subsections (2) and (3) of this section, with respect to any year shall not be entitled to raise a general drainage charge for that year otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of the said subsection (2) or, as the case may be, of the said subsections (2) and (3); but subject to that, nothing in those subsections shall prevent a river authority from raising a general drainage charge in accordance with the charges provisions other than those subsections.

#### Interpretation etc.—drainage charges.

##### 29

- (1) In the charges provisions—

- " chargeable land " means, in relation to a river authority area, the agricultural land and agricultural buildings in so much of the area as does not fall within an internal drainage district, excluding rough grazing land and woodlands other than commercial woodlands ;

- " commercial woodlands " means woodlands managed on a commercial basis with a view to the realisation of profits;

- " the principal Act " means the Land Drainage Act 1961; and

- " rough grazing land " means land used as pasture ground on which the vegetation consists solely or mainly of one or more of the following, that is to say, bracken, gorse, heather, rushes and sedge, and land so used which is unsuitable for mowing by machine and on which the vegetation consists solely or mainly of grasses of poor feeding value.

- (2) The charges provisions shall be construed as one with the principal Act.

- (3) Without prejudice to subsection (2) of this section, references to the principal Act and Part I of that Act in section 51 of that Act (application to the Crown) and in section 52(4) of that Act (interpretation) shall be construed as including references to the charges provisions.

### Drainage rates

#### Adjustment of annual values to secure fair distribution of burden of drainage rates.

##### 30

- (1) If a drainage board are of the opinion that the amount of the annual value of any relevant land in their district should, for the purpose of securing that the burden of the drainage rates payable in respect of all land in their district is fairly distributed so far as reasonably practicable among the persons liable to pay those rates, be increased or reduced having regard to changes in the circumstances by reference to which the annual value of the land in question or of any other relevant land in the district was fixed, the board may make a determination specifying as the annual value of that land such greater or smaller amount than the amount aforesaid as they consider just for that purpose, having regard to the changes and to any other alterations of annual values under this section made or proposed by the board.

- (2) If the owner or occupier of any relevant land in a drainage district is of the opinion that, having regard to such changes as aforesaid, the amount of the annual value of the land should be altered for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, he may request the drainage board in writing to make such a determination in respect of the land as is so mentioned ; and where such a request is made the board shall either comply with it or, if they consider that no alteration of the value is required for the purpose aforesaid, determine that the request be refused.

- (3) Where a drainage board make a determination under the foregoing provisions of this section, they shall serve notice of the determination, together with a statement in writing of the rights of appeal conferred by section 32 of this Act, on the owner and occupier of the land to which the determination relates.

- (4) Subject to section 33 of this Act, where a determination in respect of any land is made under subsection (1) of this section, the annual value of the land shall, for the purposes of any drainage rate made after the effective date, be that specified in the determination ; and where such a determination specifying an annual value is made under subsection (2) of this section, the annual value of the land shall, for the purposes of any drainage rate made in respect of any period included in the financial year in which the request for the determination was made and any drainage rate made in respect of any subsequent period, be that specified in the determination.

For the purposes of this subsection—

- " the effective date " means the date on which notices of the determination in question are served in pursuance of subsection (3) of this section on the owner and occupier of the land to which the determination relates or, where the notices are served on different dates, the later of those dates; and

- " financial year ", in relation to any drainage board, means the year fixed with respect to the board as mentioned in section 26(2) of the Land Drainage Act 1930.

- (5) Where the annual value of any land is altered by a determination under subsection (2) of this section and drainage rates for any period in respect of the land have been or are subsequently paid by reference to its annual value before the alteration, then if the period is one for which, in accordance with subsection (4) of this section, the amount of those rates falls to be assessed on the value specified in the determination, that amount shall be recalculated accordingly and any sum overpaid shall be repaid or allowed and any sum underpaid may be recovered as if it were arrears of drainage rates.

- (6) In this section " relevant land " means land in respect of which drainage rates fall to be assessed on, or on one-third of, the annual value of the land.

#### Apportionment of certain rateable values for purposes of drainage rates.

##### 31

- (1) Where the property which constitutes a hereditament for the purposes of drainage rates consists of or includes a part only of land for which a rateable value is shown in the current valuation list, the drainage board for the drainage district in which the hereditament is situated may if they think fit, and shall if the owner or occupier of the part in question requests them in writing to do so, determine that that list and each other valuation list from time to time in force in which a rateable value is shown for that land shall have effect—

- (a) for the purposes of subsections (4) to (6) of section 22 of the Land Drainage Act 1961 (which provide for the assessment of drainage rates by reference to rateable values); and

- (b) for the purpose of arriving at the relative fraction in pursuance of section 23 of that Act in a case where any other part of that land is situated outside the drainage district aforesaid,

as if such proportion of the rateable value so shown as is specified in the determination were shown in the list in question as the rateable value for that part.

- (2) Where a drainage board make a determination under subsection (1) of this section, they shall serve notice of the determination, together with a statement in writing of the rights of appeal conferred by section 32 of this Act, on the owner and occupier of the part of the land to which the determination relates.

- (3) A determination made by a drainage board under this section shall, subject to section 33 of this Act, have effect for the purposes of any drainage rate made by the board on or after the effective date, but shall not affect any rate so made before that date ; and in this subsection " the effective date " means the date on which notices of the determination are served in pursuance of subsection (2) of this section on the owner and occupier there mentioned or, where the notices are served on different dates, the later of those dates.

#### Appeals against determinations under s.30 or s. 31.

##### 32

- (1) Where a determination in respect of any land is made by a drainage board under section 30 or section 31 of this Act, the owner and occupier of the land or either of them may, subject to the following provisions of this section, appeal against the determination in accordance with those provisions.

- (2) An owner or occupier who wishes to appeal against such a determination must, before the expiration of the period of twenty-eight days beginning with the date of service of notice of the determination on him in pursuance of section 30 or section 31 of this Act, as the case may be, or of such longer period as the drainage board may allow either generally or in any particular case, serve on the board a notice objecting to the determination and stating the grounds of the objection.

- (3) Where notice of objection to a determination is served in pursuance of subsection (2) of this section, the drainage board may if they think fit, before the expiration of the period of twenty-eight days beginning with the date of service of the notice on them, cancel the determination and, subject to subsection (4) of this section, make in its place a fresh determination under the provisions of section 30 or section 31 of this Act under which the cancelled determination was made; and this section and the other provisions of those sections shall apply to the fresh determination accordingly.

- (4) Where notice of objection is served in pursuance of subsection (2) of this section in respect of a determination made by a drainage board under section 30(1) of this Act, the board may cancel the determination in accordance with subsection (3) of this section without making a fresh determination in its place; and in such a case the board shall serve notice of the cancellation on the person by whom the notice of objection was served on them.

- (5) Where notice of objection to a determination is served in pursuance of subsection (2) of this section and is not withdrawn before the expiration of the period mentioned in subsection (3) of this section and the drainage board do not cancel the determination in accordance with the said subsection (3), they shall, forthwith after the expiration of that period, transmit the notice and a note of the determination to the clerk to the local valuation panel for the time being constituted in pursuance of the General Rate Act 1967 for the area in which the land to which the determination relates is situated or, where different parts of that land are situated in different areas for which local valuation panels are so constituted, to the clerk to such one of those panels as may be determined by or under regulations made by the Minister.

- (6) The transmission in pursuance of subsection (5) of this section of a notice of objection to a determination of a drainage board shall constitute the lodging of an appeal against the determination, by the person who served the notice on the board, to a local valuation court constituted in accordance with section 33 of this Act.

- (7) The references in subsection (1) of this section to land in respect of which a determination is made under section 31 of this Act are references to the part of the land for which a value falls to be ascertained by reference to the determination.

#### Hearing and determination of appeals.

##### 33

- (1) It shall be the duty of the chairman or a deputy chairman of the local valuation panel to whose clerk a notice of objection is transmitted in pursuance of section 32 of this Act to arrange for the convening of a local valuation court to hear and determine the appeal to which the notice relates; and subsections (5) and (6) of section 88 of the said Act of 1967 shall apply to the constitution of the court and to the rehearing of the appeal in case of such a failure to agree as is mentioned in the said subsection (6).

- (2) Subsection (2) of section 76 of the said Act of 1967 (which regulates the procedure of local valuation courts) shall apply to a court convened in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section as if for the reference to the Minister of Housing and Local Government there were substituted a reference to the Minister and as if the reference to subsection (3) of that section were omitted.

- (3) On the hearing of an appeal to a local valuation court in pursuance of this section, the following persons, that is to say-

- (a) the person whose notice of objection to the determination in question has resulted in the hearing; and

- (b) any other person who is the owner or occupier of any land to which the determination relates; and

- (c) the drainage board by whom the determination was made,

shall be entitled to appear and be heard as parties to the appeal and to examine any witness before the court and to call witnesses.

- (4) The court to which an appeal is brought in pursuance of the foregoing provisions of this section shall, after hearing the persons mentioned in subsection (3) of this section or such of them as desire to be heard, either quash the determination to which the appeal relates or alter the determination in such manner as the court thinks just or dismiss the appeal.

- (5) Section 77 of the said Act of 1967 (which provides for appeals from local valuation courts to the Lands Tribunal) shall have effect in relation to a decision of a local valuation court under this section as if for the reference to section 76 of that Act there were substituted a reference to the foregoing provisions of this section and as if the words from " and the valuation officer " onwards were omitted.

- (6) Where the amount of any drainage rate has been calculated by reference to an annual value specified in a determination under section 30 of this Act or a rateable value attributable to a determination under section 31 of this Act and the determination is quashed or altered on appeal or cancelled in accordance with section 32(3) of this Act, then, except in so far as the parties agree otherwise, that amount shall be recalculated accordingly and any sum overpaid shall be repaid or allowed and any sum underpaid may be recovered as if it were arrears of drainage rates ; and where such a determination which has been quashed is subsequently restored on appeal, the amount of any drainage rate falling to be recalculated in consequence of the appeal shall, except as aforesaid, be recalculated accordingly and any sum overpaid shall be repaid or allowed and any sum underpaid may be recovered as aforesaid.

#### Transfer to local valuation courts of appeals from certain decisions of drainage boards.

##### 34

- (1) Sections 32 and 33 of this Act shall apply to decisions of drainage boards under section 29(2) of the Land Drainage Act 1930 as they apply to determinations of drainage boards under section 30(1) of this Act, but as if for the reference in section 32(2) to the date of service of notice of the determination in pursuance of section 30 of this Act there were substituted a reference to the date of service of notice of the decision in pursuance of section 29(3) of the said Act of 1930 and as if for any reference in section 33(6) to a determination under section 30 of this Act there were substituted a reference to a decision under the said section 29(2).

- (2) Accordingly the said Act of 1930 shall have effect subject to the following amendments, that is to say—

- (a) in section 29(3) (which among other tilings provides for appeals to a magistrates' court from decisions under section 29(2)) for the words from " within twenty-eight days " onwards there shall be substituted the words " appeal against the decision in accordance with section 34 of the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 ";

- (b) in section 30(1) for the words " under the last preceding section have appealed to a court of summary jurisdiction " there shall be substituted the words " have appealed in pursuance of section 29(3) of this Act "; and

- (c) in section 31(3) for the words " to a court of summary jurisdiction " there shall be substituted the words " on an appeal in pursuance of section 29(3) of this Act ".

#### Registers of drainage hereditaments.

##### 35

- (1) It shall be the duty of each drainage board—

- (a) to prepare in the prescribed form and within the prescribed period, or such longer period as the Minister may allow in any particular case, a register containing the prescribed information in respect of the drainage hereditaments in their district and a map showing the prescribed particulars of such of those hereditaments as are of the prescribed description;

- (b) to maintain the register and map prepared by them in pursuance of paragraph (a) above and to alter the register or map in such circumstances and in such manner and within such periods as may be prescribed; and

- (c) to keep the register and map maintained by them in pursuance of this subsection open to inspection at prescribed places by members Of the public at all reasonable times.

- (2) In subsection (1) of this section " prescribed " means prescribed by regulations made by the Minister.

#### Supplemental provisions-drainage rates.

##### 36

- (1) In section 92(1) of the General Rate Act 1967 (which among other things relates to the appointment of persons to assist local valuation panels in the performance of their functions under Part V of that Act) the reference to Part V of that Act shall include a reference to section 33 of this Act.

- (2) In section 75 of the Land Drainage Act 1930 (service of notices) and section 77 of that Act (Crown application), references to that Act shall be construed as including references to sections 30 to 34 of this Act.

### Grants to drainage authorities

#### Further powers to make grants and advances to drainage authorities.

##### 37

- (1) The Minister may, with the approval of the Treasury, make to a river authority grants in respect of expenditure incurred by the authority, and advances on account of expenditure to be incurred by the authority, in connection with the authority's functions under section 34(1)(b) or (c) of the Land Drainage Act 1930 (which relate to the improvement of existing works and the construction of new works)—

- (a) in making payments arising from the exercise of any of the powers conferred on the authority by sections 65 and 66 of the Water Resources Act 1963 (which among other things provide for the acquisition of land and rights over land);

- (b) in providing housing accommodation for persons employed or to be employed by the authority in controlling works of such a kind or so located that those persons are or will be required to reside in the vicinity of the works;

- (c) in making payments in pursuance of subsection (3) of section 34 of the said Act of 1930 (which provides for compensation for injury arising from the exercise of the powers conferred by that section);

- (d) in paying compensation in pursuance of section 38(1C) of the said Act of 1930 (which relates to injury arising from the deposit of matter on the banks of water courses) in respect of injury which the Minister considers was or will be unavoidable,

and grants in respect of or advances on account of expenditure incurred or to be incurred in carrying out works for the rebuilding or repair of any bridge maintained by the authority, other than works appearing to the Minister to be maintenance works of a routine kind.

- (2) The Minister may, with the approval of the Treasury, make to an internal drainage board grants in respect of expenditure incurred by the board, and advances on account of expenditure to be incurred by the board, in carrying out works for the rebuilding or repair of any bridge maintained by the board, other than works appearing to the Minister to be maintenance works of a routine kind.

- (3) Where a drainage authority are about to incur expenditure in respect of which it appears to the Minister that a grant will be payable under section 38(2) of the Land Drainage Act 1961 (which provides for grants in respect of certain expenditure incurred with a view to the carrying out of drainage works), the Minister may, with the approval of the Treasury, make advances to the authority on account of the expenditure.

- (4) The Minister may, with the approval of the Treasury, make to a river authority grants in respect of the cost of any works executed by the authority in pursuance of section 35 of the said Act of 1961 (under which a drainage board may execute by agreement with and at the expense of any other person any drainage works which that person is entitled to execute); and the reference to expense in that section shall be construed as excluding the amount of any grant paid under this subsection in respect of the works in question.

- (5) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as prejudicing any power of the Minister to make grants or advances under any other enactment.

- (6) Expressions used in this section and the said Act of 1930 have the same meanings in this section as in that Act.

## Part V — Miscellaneous and General

### Payments in respect of bacon, break crops and water supply

#### Stabilising and levy payments in respect of bacon.

##### 38–40

#### Provisions supplementary to s.38.

##### 39

- (1) For the purpose of obtaining any information required for the purposes of a scheme under section 38 of this Act, an authorised officer of the Minister or, in Northern Ireland, of the Ministry of Agriculture for Northern Ireland may, on producing if so required a duly authenticated document showing his authority, enter at any reasonable time any premises (other than premises used wholly or mainly as a dwelling) which he has reasonable cause to believe are used for the curing of bacon; and any person who wilfully obstructs any other person in the exercise of the powers conferred on that other person by this subsection shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty pounds.

- (2) Any person who wilfully fails to comply with any requirement imposed on him by virtue of section 38(3)(e) of this Act shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds.

- (3) Any person who knowingly or recklessly makes any false entry in any document or any other false statement—

- (a) in keeping any record or furnishing any information which he is required to keep or furnish in pursuance of the said section 38(3)(e); or

- (b) for the purpose of obtaining for himself or any other person a stabilising payment in pursuance of the said section 38 ; or

- (c) for the purpose of avoiding or assisting another person to avoid any levy payment in pursuance of that section,

shall be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding four hundred pounds or, on conviction on indictment, to a fine or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or both.

#### Grants for break crops.

##### 40

- (1) The Minister may, in accordance with a scheme made with the approval of the Treasury, make payments in respect of break crops of such descriptions as may be specified in the scheme which are grown for harvesting in any period of twelve months so specified or for feeding to stock in any such period.

- (2) A scheme under this section may be made by the Minister for England and Wales, for Scotland, for Northern Ireland or for any two or all of those parts of the United Kingdom jointly; and in relation to a scheme made jointly for Scotland and any other part or parts of the United Kingdom, references to the Minister in this section, except subsection (1) and subsection (3)(d), shall be construed as references to the Ministers.

- (3) Any scheme under this section may—

- (a) specify the rate of payments under the scheme for crops of any description and provide for different rates for crops of different descriptions and for crops of the same description in different circumstances ;

- (b) provide for the making of payments under the scheme in respect of a single period of twelve months, or of consecutive periods of twelve months not exceeding five such periods;

- (c) specify the minimum acreage or weight of crop in respect of which payments may be made to any person and provide for the manner in which acreages and weights are to be determined for the purposes of the scheme;

- (d) make provision as to the persons to whom the payments may be made and for securing that no payment is made unless it is applied for at such time and in such manner as the Minister may direct;

- (e) provide for the payments to be withheld, or for their amounts to be reduced to any extent determined by or under the scheme, in such circumstances as may be so determined; and

- (f) contain provisions generally for securing that the payments are properly made, and such incidental and supplemental provisions as the Minister considers expedient for the purposes of the scheme.

- (4) Any person who knowingly or recklessly makes a false statement for the purpose of obtaining for himself or any other person a payment in pursuance of a scheme under this section, shall be liable as mentioned in section 39(3) of this Act.

- (5) In this section " break crops " means field beans and any other crops of a kind which, in the opinion of the Minister, it is appropriate to grow with a view to changing temporarily, for the benefit of future crops, the crops on land usually used for growing wheat or barley, but does not include wheat, barley, oats, rye, potatoes and sugar beet.

#### Grants towards cost of water supply to agricultural buildings.

##### 41

- (1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Miscellaneous

#### Compensation in connection with compulsory acquisition etc. of agricultural holdings.

##### 42

- (1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, where in pursuance of any enactment providing for the acquisition or taking of possession of land compulsorily an acquiring authority acquire the interest in an agricultural holding or any part of it of the tenant of the holding or take possession of such a holding or any part of it, the compensation payable by the authority to the tenant in connection with the acquisition or taking of possession shall be assessed without regard to the tenant’s prospects, if any, of remaining in possession of the holding after the relevant date.

- (2) In subsection (1) of this section “*the relevant date*” means the earliest date on which, apart from the acquisition or taking of possession, the landlord could obtain possession of the holding in pursuance of such a notice to quit as is mentioned in paragraph (c) below if—

- (a) the tenant exercised any tenant’s option to extend or renew the tenancy in any case where, apart from this section, he would benefit from doing so; and

- (b) the landlord disregarded any provision in the contract of tenancy or lease enabling him to resume possession of the holding or to determine the tenancy by notice before the date fixed for the expiration of its term or before the termination of the stipulated endurance of the lease; and

- (c) the landlord served a valid notice to quit on the tenant in respect of the holding on the date of service of notice to treat in respect of the acquisition or the date of the taking of possession, as the case may be, or as soon thereafter as he became entitled to serve such a notice to quit; and

- (d) the provisions of section 24 of the principal Act or section 25 of the principal Scottish Act (which restrict the operation of notices to quit) did not apply to the said notice to quit;

and for the purposes of this subsection any such notice as is mentioned in section 3(1) of the principal Act (which refers to notices of intention to terminate the tenancy of an agricultural holding granted for a term of two years or upwards) shall be deemed to be a notice to quit.

- (3) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to such an acquisition or taking of possession as is there mentioned—

- (a) in the case of such an acquisition, unless the date on which notice to treat in respect of the interest to be acquired is served or treated as served on the tenant by the acquiring authority is after the date of the passing of this Act;

- (b) where in the case of such a taking of possession prior notice of the taking of possession is by virtue of any enactment required to be served on the tenant by the acquiring authority, unless the date on which the notice is so served is after the date of the passing of this Act.

- (4) Section 17 of this Act shall have effect as if any reference to Part II of this Act, other than the reference in subsection (4), included a reference to the foregoing provisions of this section.

- (5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as prejudicing the provisions of any other enactment under which, apart from this section, compensation in respect of any such compulsory acquisition or taking of possession as is mentioned in subsection (1) of this section falls to be assessed without regard to the prospects there mentioned.

#### Amendments of Plant Varieties and Seeds Act 1964.

##### 43

#### Extension of Agricultural and Forestry Associations Act 1962.

##### 44

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (1) Section 1 of the Agricultural and Forestry Associations Act 1962 (which confers exemptions from Part I of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 for certain co-operative associations formed for purposes of agriculture or forestry) shall apply to corresponding associations of persons engaged in the business of catching or taking fish or shellfish, and accordingly shall have effect as if—

- (a) references to persons occupying land used for agriculture or forestry or both included references to persons engaged in the business aforesaid;

- (b) references to produce produced by members of an association on land so occupied and used, and to the production of such produce on such land, included references to fish or shellfish caught or taken by such members, and to the catching or taking of fish or shellfish, in the course of their business.

- (2) Without prejudice to the foregoing provision, the said section 1 shall apply to any co-operative association having as its object or primary object to assist its members—

- (a) in the carrying on of the businesses of agriculture or forestry or both on land occupied by them; or

- (b) in the carrying on of businesses consisting in the catching or taking of fish or shellfish,

whether or not the conditions specified in paragraphs (a) to (c) of subsection (1) of that section are satisfied; and for the purposes of this subsection “*co-operative association*” has the meaning assigned by subsection (9) of section 70 of the Finance Act 1965, and references to members of a co-operative association include references to members of any such association which is a member of that association.

- (3) The restrictions in respect of which exemption from Part I of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 is conferred by subsection (2) of the said section 1 shall include restrictions accepted or treated as accepted as mentioned in that subsection in respect of the production of produce, the catching or taking of fish or shellfish, or the supply of produce, fish or shellfish by members of an association to which the section applies.

- (4) This section shall be construed as one with the Agricultural and Forestry Associations Act 1962.

#### Modification of Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1956 in relation to agricultural marketing boards.

##### 45

#### Further functions of agricultural wages committees.

##### 46

- (1) The Minister may by regulations—

- (a) provide that the functions under the Agricultural Wages Act 1948 of agricultural wages 0committees established in pursuance of that Act shall include such further functions as the Minister considers appropriate for the purpose of enabling or requiring those committees to give effect to orders made or which may be made by the Agricultural Wages Board for England and Wales under that Act and (without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions in this paragraph) to determine whether any person is a member of any special class of workers as defined in such an order;

- (b) make provision with respect to the procedure to be followed in connection with the exercise of the further functions aforesaid and provide that section 15 of that Act (which relates to evidence of resolutions and orders) shall apply with such modifications as the Minister considers appropriate to decisions made in the exercise of those functions.

- (2) In this section “*functions*” means powers and duties.

- (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Further exemptions of transfers of land from control of Rural Development Boards.

##### 47

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [A]fter paragraph (f) of section 50(3) of the said Act of 1967 (which exempts certain transfers from the requirement aforesaid) there shall be inserted the following paragraphs:—

> (g) a river authority (including the Conservators of the River Thames and the Lee Conservancy Catchment Board);
> (h) an internal drainage board within the meaning of the Land Drainage Act 1930

.

#### Extension of s.3 of Parks Regulation (Amendment) Act 1926.

##### 48

In section 3 of the Parks Regulation (Amendment) Act 1926 (under which, among other things, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has power to regulate the conduct of persons using the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew), the second reference to the said Gardens shall include a reference to any park, garden, recreation ground, open space and other land for the time being vested in or under the control or management of the said Minister.

#### Amendment of s.53(2) of the Agricultural Marketing Act 1958.

##### 49

### Supplemental

#### Interpretation etc.—general.

##### 50

- (1) Subject to subsection (7) of section 45 of this Act, in this Act—

- “*the Minister*” means, except in the application of this Act to Scotland, the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and, in the application of this Act to Scotland, the Secretary of State;

- “*the Ministers*” means the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food and the Secretary of State acting jointly; and

- “*notice*” means notice in writing.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) Any reference in this Act to any enactment is a reference to it as amended, and includes a reference to it as applied, by or under any other enactment including an enactment in this Act.

- (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

In this subsection “*director*”, in relation to a body corporate established by or under any enactment for the purpose of carrying on under national ownership any industry or undertaking or part of an industry or undertaking, being a body corporate whose affairs are managed by its members, means a member of that body corporate.

#### Orders, regulations and schemes.

##### 51

- (1) Any power conferred by this Act to make regulations or a scheme or an order (other than an order under section 23(1)(a)) shall be exercisable by statutory instrument.

- (2) Any statutory instrument containing an order or regulations made under any provision of this Act, other than an order under section 23(1)(b) and regulations under section 2, shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

- (3) No scheme shall be made under this Act unless a draft of the scheme has been approved by each House of Parliament.

- (4) Any order or scheme made under any provision of this Act may be revoked or varied by a subsequent order or scheme made thereunder.

- (5) Any order, scheme or regulations under this Act may make different provision for different circumstances; and nothing in any other provision of this Act authorising the making of different provision for such different cases as may be specified in that provision shall be construed as prejudicing the generality of the power conferred by this subsection.

#### Repeals.

##### 52

The enactments mentioned in Schedule 8 to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in column 3 of that Schedule.

#### Financial provisions.

##### 53

There shall be defrayed out of moneys provided by Parliament—

- (a) any expenses incurred by virtue of this Act by any Minister or government department . . . ; and

- (b) any increase attributable to the provisions of this Act in the sums payable out of such moneys under any other Act;

and any sums received by the Minister or the Ministers by virtue of this Act shall be paid into the Exchequer.

#### Short title, commencement and extent, etc.

##### 54

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968.

- (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (3) This Act, except Part IV and sections 10, 13, 47 and 48, extends to Scotland, and sections 11, 14 and 16 and Part III of this Act extend to Scotland only.

- (4) This Part of this Act, except sections 41, 42 and 46 to 48, extends to Northern Ireland; . . .

## SCHEDULES 1, 2

##### 1

Where the relevant notice is served on the tenant after the initial date but not later than the commencement date and does not contain such a statement as is mentioned in section 24(2)(a) or (b) of the principal Act or section 10(1)(b) or (c) of this Act, then—

- (a) if an application for consent in respect of the relevant notice is made in pursuance of section 24(1) of the principal Act not later than the commencement date, any such statement as is mentioned in the said section 10(1)(b) which is included in the application shall be treated for the purposes of section 10 of this Act as included also in the relevant notice ; and

- (b) if, in a case not falling within sub-paragraph (a) above, the landlord serves on the tenant, before or after the commencement date but before the expiration of the period of three months beginning with that date, a notice containing such a statement as is mentioned in the said section 10(1)(b) or (c) and indicating that the relevant notice is to be treated as having always included that statement, the relevant notice shall be so treated for the purposes of the said section 10.

##### 2

Where either—

- (a) the relevant notice is served on the tenant not later than the commencement date and contains such a statement as is mentioned in the said section 10(1)(b) or (c); or

- (b) a notice is served on the tenant under paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule,

and in either case no counter-notice in respect of the relevant notice in question has been served in pursuance of section 24(1) of the principal Act and the period during which such a counter-notice may be served has expired, the tenant may, within the period of three months beginning with the commencement date or, where the notice under paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule is served on a later date, beginning with the later date, make an application to the tribunal for a determination that the tribunal are satisfied that the relevant notice was given in order that the land in question may be used otherwise than for agriculture.

##### 3

Where the tribunal have, on or before the commencement date, given a decision consenting under section 24(1) of the principal Act to the operation of the relevant notice and either—

- (a) the reason given by the tribunal for their decision is that they are satisfied as to the matter mentioned in section 25(1)(b) of that Act; or

- (b) the reasons so given include that reason but not the reason that they are satisfied as to the matter mentioned in section 25(1)(e) of that Act,

the tenant may, at any time before the expiration of the period of three months beginning with the commencement date, make an application to the tribunal for a determination that the reasons for their decision would have included the reason that they were satisfied as to the matter mentioned in the said section 25(1)(e) if that matter had been specified in the application for consent.

##### 4

Where the tribunal make a determination under paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of this Schedule, section 10(1) of this Act shall not apply in relation to the relevant notice in question.

##### 5

In this Schedule—

- " the commencement date " means the date of the passing of this Act; and

- " the relevant notice " and " the tribunal " have the same meanings as in section 10 of this Act.

## SCHEDULE 2

##### 1

Where the relevant notice (not being a notice given in pursuance of section 6(3) of the Agriculture Act 1958) is served on the tenant after the initial date but not later than the commencement date and does not contain such a statement as is mentioned in section 25(2)(c) of the principal Scottish Act or section 11(1)(a) or (b) of this Act, then—

- (a) if an application for consent in respect of the relevant notice is made in pursuance of section 25(1) of the principal Scottish Act not later than the commencement date, any such statement as is mentioned in the said section 11(1)(a) which is included in the application shall be treated for the purposes of section 11 of this Act as included also in the relevant notice; and

- (b) if, in a case not falling within sub-paragraph (a) above, the landlord serves on the tenant, before or after the commencement date but before the expiration of the period of three months beginning with that date, a notice containing such a statement as is mentioned in the said section l1(1)(a) or (b) and indicating that the relevant notice is to be treated as having always included that statement, the relevant notice shall be so treated for the purposes of the said section 11.

##### 2

Where the relevant notice is given in pursuance of section 6(3) of the Agriculture Act 1958, is served on the tenant after the initial date but not later than the commencement date and does not contain such a statement as is mentioned in section l1(7)(b) of this Act, then,

if the landlord serves on the tenant, before or after the commencement date but before the expiration of the period of three months beginning with that date, a notice containing such a statement as is mentioned in the said section 11(7)(6) and indicating that the relevant notice is to be treated as having always included that statement, the relevant notice shall be so treated for the purposes of section 11 of this Act:

##### 3

Where the relevant notice is a notice to which, apart from the provisions of the said section 19, the said section 6(3) would apply, and the landlord in a notification to the tenant under section 19(2) of this Act specifies a matter set out in section 26(1) of the principal Scottish Act, then—

- (a) in the case of a matter set out in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of the said section 26(1), the relevant notice shall be treated for the purposes of section 11(1)(a) of this Act as if it had always contained a statement of that matter as a ground on which the carrying out of the purposes for which the landlord proposes to terminate the tenancy is desirable;

- (b) in the case of the matter set out in paragraph (d) of the said section 26(1), the relevant notice shall be treated for the purposes of section 11(1)(b) of this Act as if it had always contained a statement that the landlord would suffer hardship unless the notice had effect.

##### 4

Where either—

- (a) the relevant notice is served on the tenant not later than the commencement date and contains such a statement as is mentioned in the said section 11(1)(a) or (b); or

- (b) a notice is served on the tenant under paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule,

and in either case no counter-notice in respect of the relevant notice in question has been served in pursuance of section 25(1) of the principal Scottish Act and the period during which such a counter-notice may be served has expired, the tenant may, within the period of three months beginning with the commencement date or, where the notice under paragraph 1(b) of this Schedule is served on a later date, beginning with the later date, make an application to the court for a determination that the court are satisfied that the relevant notice was given in order that the land in question may be used otherwise than for agriculture.

##### 5

Where the court have, on or before the commencement date, given a decision consenting under section 25(1) of the principal Scottish Act to the operation of the relevant notice and either—

- (a) the reason given by the court for their decision is that they are satisfied as to the matter mentioned in section 26(1)(b) of that Act; or

- (b) the reasons so given include that reason but not the reason that they are satisfied as to the matter mentioned in section 26(1)(e) of that Act,

the tenant may, at any time before the expiration of the period of three months beginning with the commencement date, make an application to the court for a determination that the reasons for their decision would have included the reason that they were satisfied as to the matter mentioned in the said section 26(1)(e) if that matter had been specified in the application for consent.

##### 6

Where the court make a determination under paragraph 4 or paragraph 5 of this Schedule, section 11(1) of this Act shall not apply in relation to the relevant notice in question.

##### 7

In this Schedule—

- " the commencement date " means the date of the passing of this Act; and

- " the court " and " the relevant notice " have the same meanings as in section 11 of this Act.

## SCHEDULE 3

##### 1

Subject to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, any dispute with respect to any sum which may be or become payable by virtue of section 12(1) of this Act shall be referred to and determined by the Lands Tribunal.

##### 2

If in any case the sum to be paid by virtue of the said section 12(1) to the tenant of an agricultural holding by an acquiring authority would, apart from this paragraph and paragraph 3 of this Schedule, fall to be ascertained in pursuance of section 9(2) of this Actsection 60(4) of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 by reference to the rent of the holding at a rate which was not determined by arbitration under section 8 or section 9 of the principal Actsection 12 or section 13 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 and which the authority consider is unduly high, the authority may make an application to the Lands Tribunal for the rent to be considered by the tribunal.

##### 3

Where, on an application under paragraph 2 above, the tribunal are satisfied that—

- (a) the rent to which the application relates is not substantially higher than the rent which in their opinion would be determined for the holding in question on a reference to arbitration duly made in pursuance of section 8 of the principal Actsection 12 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 on the date of the application (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as “*the appropriate rent*”); or

- (b) the rent to which the application relates is substantially higher than the appropriate rent but was not fixed by the parties to the relevant contract of tenancy with a view to increasing the amount of any compensation payable, or of any sum to be paid by virtue of the said section 12(1), in consequence of the compulsory acquisition or taking of possession of any land included in the holding,

they shall dismiss the application; and if the tribunal do not dismiss the application in pursuance of the foregoing provisions of this paragraph they shall determine that, in the case to which the application relates, the sum to be paid by virtue of the said section 12(1) shall be ascertained in pursuance of the said section 9(2)section 60(4) by reference to the appropriate rent instead of by reference to the rent to which the application relates.

##### 4

The enactments mentioned in paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall, subject to any necessary modifications, have effect in their application to such an acquiring of an interest or taking of possession as is mentioned in subsection (1) of section 12 of this Act (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as “*the relevant event*”)—

- (a) in so far as those enactments make provision for the doing, before the relevant event, of any thing connected with compensation (including in particular provision for determining the amount of or the liability to pay compensation or for the payment of it into court or otherwise), as if references to compensation, except compensation for damage or injurious affection, included references to any sum which will become payable by virtue of the said subsection (1) in consequence of the relevant event; and

- (b) subject to sub-paragraph (a) above, as if references to compensation (except as aforesaid) included references to sums payable or, as the context may require, to sums paid by virtue of the said subsection (1) in consequence of the relevant event.

##### 5

The enactments aforesaid are—

- (a) Part I and section 32 of the Land Compensation Act 1961;

- (b) the following provisions of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965, that is to say, sections 6, 9, 11, 12, 20(4) and (5), 22 (except subsection (4)) and 26; in Schedule 1, paragraphs 6 to 8 and 10; Schedule 2 ...;

- (c) any provision of the Lands Clauses Acts or of any other enactment or any instrument having effect by virtue of an enactment, being a provision corresponding to a provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.

## SCHEDULE 4 . . .

##### 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## SCHEDULE 5 . . .

##### 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## SCHEDULE 6

##### 1

The following provisions of the principal Act shall cease to have effect, that is to say, section 1(2) and (3), section 2, section 4(2) and (4), section 7, section 8(1)(c)(ii) and (2), in section 8(3) the words " or of the said subsection (2) ", section 9(4), in section 10(3) the words " section 7 or " and section 14.

##### 2

For references to chargeable hereditaments in Part I of the principal Act, except section 12, there shall be substituted references to chargeable land, and for the references to a chargeable hereditament in that section and for other references to hereditaments in that Part there shall be substituted references to land.

##### 3

Without prejudice to the operation of section 29(2) of this Act, the references to Part I of the principal Act in sections 3(1), 13 and 16 of that Act shall include references to the charges provisions.

##### 4

In section 4(3) of the principal Act for references to section 4(2) of that Act there shall be substituted references to section 23(1) of this Act.

##### 5

In section 16 of the principal Act for the definition of " chargeable hereditament " there shall be substituted the words " chargeable land' has the meaning assigned to it by section 29(1) of the Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1968 ".

##### 6

In this Schedule expressions defined by sections 21(2) and 29(1) of this Act have the same meanings as in those provisions.

## SCHEDULE 7

## SCHEDULE 8

#### Prevention of unnecessary pain and distress for livestock.

#### . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## Editorial notes

[^c3516221]: Act not in force at Royal Assent; Act wholly in force at 3.9.1968 see [s. 54(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/54/2).

[^c3516291]: S. 2: power to transfer functions conferred (27.12.1999) by [S.I. 1999/3141](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141), [arts. 2(1)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/2/1/5), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/3), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/schedule)

[^c4308171]: S. 2: Certain functions transferred (27.3.2002) by [The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dissolution) Order 2002 (S.I. 2000/794)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794), [art. 3(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/3/6) (with [art. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/6))

[^c3516311]: S. 3: power to transfer functions conferred (27.12.1999) by [S.I. 1999/3141](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141), [arts. 2(1)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/2/1/5), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/3), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/schedule)

[^c4308191]: S. 3: Certain functions transferred (27.3.2002) by [The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dissolution) Order 2002 (S.I. 2002/794)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794), [art. 3(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/3/6) (with [art. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/6))

[^c3516331]: S. 5: power to transfer functions conferred (27.12.1999) by [S.I. 1999/3141](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141) arts. 2(1)(5), 3, Sch.

[^c4308211]: S. 5: Certain functions transferred (27.3.2002) by [The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Dissolution) Order 2002 (S.I. 2002/794)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794), [art. 3(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/3/6) (with [art. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/6))

[^c3516341]: [1954 c. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1954/46).

[^c3516381]: S. 8(1) (definition of “livestock”) extended by [S. I. 1980/593](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1980/593), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1980/593/article/2)

[^c3516231]: Certain functions of the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food under Pt. I now exercisable (W.) by Secretary of State or Minister and Secretary of State jointly: [S. I. 1978/272](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1978/272), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1978/272/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1978/272/schedule/1) Pt. I (ss. 1-8): transfer of functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c3516651]: [S. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/9) repealed (S.)(25.9.1991) by [Agricutural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3516661]: [Ss. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/9), [10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/10) repealed (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1984 (c.41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41), [s. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41/section/10), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41/schedule/4) and by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [101](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/101), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3516791]: [Ss. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/9), [10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/10) repealed (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1984 (c.41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41), [s. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41/section/10), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1984/41/schedule/4) and by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [101](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/101), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3516801]: [S. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/10) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricutural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3516871]: [S. 11](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/11) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricutural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3516961]: S. 12 amended by (E.W.) [Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26), [s. 48(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/48/5) and (S.) [Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1973 (c. 56)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56), [s. 44(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56/section/44/4)

[^c3516971]: S. 12 modified by (E.W.) [Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26), [ss. 59(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/59/2)(*a*), 61(3) and (S.) [Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1973 (c. 56)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56), [ss. 55(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56/section/55/2)(*a*), 56(8), 57(3), 58(3)(6), Sch. 1

[^c3516981]: S. 12 repealed (S.)(25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2) Sch. 13, Pt. I (with s. 45(3), Sch. 12 paras. 1, 3)

[^c3516991]: Words substituted (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/44)

[^c3517001]: S. 12(1A) inserted (1.9.1995) by [1995 c. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/8), [ss. 40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/8/section/40), [41(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/8/section/41/2), [Sch. para. 23](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/8/schedule/paragraph/23) (with [s. 37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/8/section/37)).

[^c3517071]: Words substituted (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/45)

[^c3517081]: [1947 c. 48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1947/48).

[^c3517091]: Words substituted by [Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11, SIF 123:1, 2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/11), [s. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/11/section/4), [Sch. 2 para. 19](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1990/11/schedule/2/paragraph/19)

[^c3517101]: Words substituted by [New Towns Act 1981 (c. 64)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/64), [s. 81](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/64/section/81), [Sch. 12 para. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1981/64/schedule/12/paragraph/4)

[^c3517151]: [S. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/14) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3517241]: [S. 15](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/15) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3517251]: [S. 15(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/15/1) repealed with saving by [Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26), [ss. 48(4)(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/48/4/6), [89(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/89/3), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/schedule/3) except in relation to compensation falling to be assessed by reference to prices current on a date before 23. 5. 1973 and except for the purposes of s. 48(6) of that Act

[^c3517261]: [S. 15(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/15/2) repealed (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3517271]: [S. 15(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/15/3) excluded by [Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1973 (c. 56)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56), [s. 55(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56/section/55/2)(*b*

[^c3517281]: Words repealed (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3517331]: [S. 16](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/16) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3517421]: [S. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/17) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3517431]: Definition repealed (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3517441]: [1949 c. 75](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1949/75).

[^c3517451]: Words substituted (E. W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 46(1)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/46/1/2)

[^c3517461]: Words repealed by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 15 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/15/part/I)

[^c3517471]: Words substituted (E.W.) by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c. 5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 46(1)(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/46/1/3)

[^c3516451]: Part II (ss. 9-17) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13 Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3517481]: [Pt. III](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/part/III) (ss. 18–20) repealed by [Agricultural Holdings (Amendment) (Scotland) Act 1983 (c.46, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/46), [s. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/46/section/6), [Sch. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/46/schedule/2)

[^c3517491]: [Ss. 21–37](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/21) repealed by [Land Drainage Act 1976 (c. 70)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/70), [Sch. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/70/schedule/8)

[^c3517501]: [Ss. 38–40](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/38) repealed by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1986 (c.12)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/12), [s. 1(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/12/section/1/1), [Sch. 1 Pt II](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/12/schedule/1)

[^c3517531]: [S. 41](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/41) (1) repealed with saving by [Agriculture Act 1970 (c. 40)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1970/40) , s. 113(3), Sch. 5 Pt. I

[^c3517541]: [S. 41(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/41/1) repealed (5.11.1993) by 1993, c. 50, s. 1(1), Sch. 1, Pt.II

[^c3517551]: [S. 41](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/41) (2) repealed by [Agriculture Act 1970 (c. 40)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1970/40), [s. 113(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1970/40/section/113/3), [Sch. 5 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1970/40/schedule/5/part/I)

[^c3517591]: By [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c. 5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/47) it is provided that in s. 42(2), as it has effect for the purposes of s. 48(6) of the Land Compensation Act 1973 for “section 24 of the principal Act/ “ there is substituted (E.W.)”section 26 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986” and for “principal Act” in the second place where occurring there is substituted “Agricultural Holdings Act 1986”

[^c13266621]: [S. 42](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/42) repealed with saving by [Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26), [ss. 48(4)(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/48/4/6), [89(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/89/3), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/schedule/3) except in relation to compensation falling to be assessed by reference to prices current on a date before 23. 5. 1973 and except for the purposes of s. 48(6) of that Act

[^c3517641]: [S. 43](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/43) repealed (8.5.1998) by [1997 c. 66](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66), [s. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66/section/52), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66/schedule/4); [S.I. 1998/1028](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1028), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1028/article/2)

[^c3517651]: [S. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/44) repealed by [Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1976 (c. 34)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/34), [s. 44](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/34/section/44), [Sch. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/34/schedule/6)

[^c3517661]: [1962 c. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1962/29).

[^c3517671]: [1956 c. 68](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1956/68).

[^c3517681]: [1965 c. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1965/25).

[^c3517691]: [1962 c. 29](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1962/29).

[^c3517701]: [S. 12](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/12) amended by (E.W.) [Land Compensation Act 1973 (c. 26)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26), [s. 48(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/26/section/48/5) and (S.) [Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1973 (c. 56)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56), [s. 44(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/56/section/44/4)

[^c3517961]: [S. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/45) repealed (1.3.2000) by [S.I. 2000/311](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2000/311), [art. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2000/311/article/8)

[^c3517971]: S. 46: power to amend conferred (1.4.1999) by [1998 c. 39](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/39), [s. 47(2)(d)(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/39/section/47/2/d/3) (with [s. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/39/section/36)); [S.I. 1999/685](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/685), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/685/article/2), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/685/schedule) S. 46: transfer of functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c3517981]: [1948 c. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1948/47).

[^c3517991]: S. 46(3) repealed by [Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1972 (c. 62)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1972/62), [Sch. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1972/62/schedule/6)

[^c3518001]: Words repealed by [Water Act 1989 (c.15, SIF 130)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15), [ss. 58(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/58/7), [101(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/101/1), [141(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/141/6), [160(1)(2)(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/160/1/2/4), [189(4)–(10)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/189/4), [190](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/190), [193(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/section/193/1), [Sch. 26 paras. 3(1)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/3/1/2), [17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/17), [40(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/40/4), [41(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/41/1), [57(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/57/6), [58](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/26/paragraph/58), [Sch. 27](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1989/15/schedule/27)

[^c3518011]: [1926 c. 36](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1926/36).

[^c3518021]: [S. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/49) repealed by [Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973 (c. 36)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36), [Sch. 6 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36/schedule/6/part/I)

[^c3518031]: [S. 50(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/50/2) repealed by [Water Act 1973 (c. 37)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/37), [Sch. 9](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/37/schedule/9)

[^c3518041]: The text of ss. 43(1)(2), 52, Schs. 7, 8 is in the form in which it was originally enacted: it was not reproduced in Statutes in Force and does not reflect any amendments or repeals which may have been made prior to 1.2.1991.

[^c3518051]: Words repealed by [Post Office Act 1969 (c. 48)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1969/48), [Sch. 11 Pt. II](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1969/48/schedule/11/part/II)

[^c3518061]: Words repealed by [Northern Ireland Constitution Act 1973 (c. 36)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36), [Sch. 6 Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1973/36/schedule/6/part/I)

[^c3518071]: [Schs. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/1), [2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/2) repealed by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1977 (c. 18)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1977/18), [Sch. 1 Pt. XIX](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1977/18/schedule/1/part/XIX)

[^c3518081]: Words “section 60(4) of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986” substituted (E.W.) for words “section 9(2) of this Act” and “section 12 or section 13 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986” substituted (E.W) for “section 8 or section 9 of the principal Act” by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 48(1)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/48/1/2)(*a*)(*b*)

[^c3518121]: Words “section 12 of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986” substituted (E.W.) for words “section 8 of the principal Act” and words “section 60(4)” substituted (E.W.) for words “section 9(2)” by [Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 (c.5, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5), [ss. 99](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/99), [100](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/section/100), [Sch. 13 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/13/paragraph/3), [Sch. 14 para. 48(1)(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/5/schedule/14/paragraph/48/1/3)(*a*)(*b*)

[^c3518161]: [1961 c. 33](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1961/33).

[^c3518171]: [1965 c. 56](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1965/56).

[^c3518191]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518201]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518211]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518221]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518271]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518291]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518181]: [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/4) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518321]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518331]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518341]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3),[Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518351]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518361]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518371]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt. I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518381]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518401]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518301]: [Sch. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/5) repealed (S.) (25.9.1991) by [Agricultural Holdings (Scotland) Act 1991 (c. 55, SIF 2:3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55), [ss. 88(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/88/2), [89(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/89/2), [Sch. 13](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/13), [Pt.I](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/part/I) (with [s. 45(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/section/45/3), [Sch. 12 paras. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1991/55/schedule/12/paragraph/3))

[^c3518411]: [Sch. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/6) repealed by [Land Drainage Act 1976 (c. 70)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/70), [Sch. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1976/70/schedule/8)

[^c3518441]: [Sch. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/7) repealed (8.5.1998) by [1997 c. 66](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66), [s. 52](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66/section/52), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/66/schedule/4); [S.I. 1998/1028](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1028), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/1028/article/2)

[^c3518451]: The text of ss. 43(1)(2), 52, Schs. 7, 8 is in the form in which it was originally enacted: it was not reproduced in Statutes in Force and does not reflect any amendments or repeals which may have been made prior to 1.2.1991.

[^key-101ca41bfd3701b4274587c9cc2e12ce]: [S. 54(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/54/2) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 17](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/17) Group 1

[^key-d58a14776bc32436b07834a0dd3d4687]: [S. 12(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/12/4) inserted (31.10.2004) by [Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/5), [Sch. 7 para. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/5/schedule/7/paragraph/4) (with [s. 111](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/5/section/111)); [S.I. 2004/2593](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2004/2593), [art. 2(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2004/2593/article/2/d)

[^key-b3638e6b9378bd35cb9b8efdc86c4df1]: Pt. 1 (except ss. 4, 5 and s. 8(1)(3) for specified purposes) repealed (S.) (6.10.2006) by [Animal Health and Welfare (Scotland) Act 2006 (asp 11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2006/11), [s. 55(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2006/11/section/55/1), [sch. 2 para. 8(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2006/11/schedule/2/paragraph/8/1) (with [s. 54](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2006/11/section/54)); [S.S.I. 2006/482](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2006/482), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2006/482/article/2) (with [art. 4(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2006/482/article/4/2)[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2006/482/article/4/3))

[^key-235d2d251d3c5c90ce756b90568b697f]: Pt. 1 repealed (E.W.) (27.3.2007 for W. and 6.4.2007 for E. except for the repeals of ss. 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 1.10.2007 for E. and 24.10.2007 for W. in so far as not already in force) by [Animal Welfare Act 2006 (c. 45)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45), [s. 68(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/section/68/3), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/schedule/4) (with [ss. 1(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/section/1/2), [58(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/section/58/1), [59](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/section/59), [60](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2006/45/section/60)); [S.I. 2007/499](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/499), [art. 2(2)(m)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/499/article/2/2/m); [S.I. 2007/1030](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/1030), [art. 2(1)(m)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/1030/article/2/1/m); [S.I. 2007/2711](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/2711), [art. 2(b)(i)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/2711/article/2/b/i) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/2711/article/3)); [S.I. 2007/3065](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/3065), [art. 2(b)(i)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/3065/article/2/b/i) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2007/3065/article/3))

[^key-90c9f2b5978682f3faa14fd47c157b5a]: Words in [Sch. 3 para. 5(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/schedule/3/paragraph/5/b) omitted (13.7.2016) by virtue of [Housing and Planning Act 2016 (c. 22)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2016/22), [s. 216(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2016/22/section/216/3), [Sch. 16 para. 8](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2016/22/schedule/16/paragraph/8); [S.I. 2016/733](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2016/733), [reg. 3(j)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2016/733/regulation/3/j)

[^key-082a546837b4871f93a3343d494f94fd]: Words in s. 8(1) repealed (S.) (16.6.2025) by [Agriculture and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024 (asp 11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11), [s. 38(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/section/38/2), [sch. 2 Pt. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/schedule/2/part/1); [S.S.I. 2025/167](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167), [reg. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/regulation/2), [sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/schedule)

[^key-cb5b38629cbc8700bafd0e8dedd16df6]: [S. 8(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/8/3) repealed (S.) (16.6.2025) by [Agriculture and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024 (asp 11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11), [s. 38(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/section/38/2), [sch. 2 Pt. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/schedule/2/part/1); [S.S.I. 2025/167](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167), [reg. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/regulation/2), [sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/schedule)

[^key-3e1f70a7a5d6cd59fa63cb6c32aa7868]: [S. 46](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1968/34/section/46) repealed (1.10.2013 for E.) by [Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 (c. 24)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/24), [s. 103(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/24/section/103/3), [Sch. 20 para. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2013/24/schedule/20/paragraph/2); [S.I. 2013/1455](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/1455), [art. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/1455/article/3/b), [Sch. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/1455/schedule/2) (with [art. 4(2)(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/1455/article/4/2/4)) (as amended (7.9.2013) by [S.I. 2013/2271](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/2271), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2013/2271/article/2)); s. 46 repealed (S.) (16.6.2025) by [Agriculture and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024 (asp 11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11), [s. 38(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/section/38/2), [sch. 2 Pt. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11/schedule/2/part/1); [S.S.I. 2025/167](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167), [reg. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/regulation/2), [sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2025/167/schedule)

#### Regulations with respect to the welfare of livestock.

#### Additional payments in consequence of compulsory acquisition etc. of agricultural holdings.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
