---
title: "Birds (Registration Charges) Act 1997"
identifier: "ukpga-1997-55"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1997-03-21"
last_updated: "1997-03-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/55"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision (including provision having retrospective effect) authorising the Secretary of State to impose charges in respect of registrations effected in accordance with regulations under section 6(2) or 7(1) of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1997"
number: "55"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105455970"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
restrict_start_date: "1997-03-21"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Birds (Registration Charges) Act 1997

#### Fees for registration for selling or keeping of birds

##### 1

- (1) In section 6 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 (subsection (2) of which prohibits the selling etc. of certain dead wild birds otherwise than by a registered person), after subsection (8) insert—

> (8A) The Secretary of State may charge such reasonable sum (if any) as he may determine in respect of any registration effected in accordance with regulations under subsection (2).

- (2) In section 7 of that Act (which prohibits the keeping etc. of certain birds unless they have been registered), after subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) The Secretary of State may charge such reasonable sum (if any) as he may determine in respect of any registration effected in accordance with regulations under subsection (1).

- (3) The Secretary of State shall be taken to have had power to charge all sums received by him before 21st May 1996 in respect of registration in accordance with regulations under section 6(2) or 7(1) of that Act.

- (4) The Secretary of State may charge such reasonable sum (if any) as he may determine in respect of any registration effected in accordance with regulations under section 7(1) of that Act during the period beginning with that date and ending with the day before this Act is passed.

But a person shall not be liable to pay any sum charged under this subsection unless the Secretary of State has given him at least 28 days' notice that he is being charged the sum.

#### Financial provision

##### 2

Any sums received by the Secretary of State in consequence of this Act shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

#### Short title and extent

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Birds (Registration Charges) Act 1997.

- (2) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.
