---
title: "Mental Capacity (Amendment) Act 2019"
identifier: "ukpga-2019-18"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2019-05-16"
last_updated: "2019-05-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/18"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to amend the Mental Capacity Act 2005 in relation to procedures in accordance with which a person may be deprived of liberty where the person lacks capacity to consent; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2025-02-03"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2019"
number: "18"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105700579"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2019-05-16"
number_of_provisions: "80"
stats_total_paragraphs: "80"
stats_body_paragraphs: "9"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "71"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Mental Capacity (Amendment) Act 2019

### Safeguards

#### Deprivation of liberty: authorisation of arrangements enabling care and treatment

##### 1

- (1) The Mental Capacity Act 2005 is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 4A (restriction on deprivation of liberty) for subsection (5) substitute—

> (5) D may deprive P of liberty if, by doing so, D is carrying out arrangements authorised under Schedule AA1 (arrangements enabling the care and treatment of persons who lack capacity).

- (3) After section 4B insert—

> (4C)
>   (1) This section applies to an act that a person (“D”) does in carrying out arrangements authorised under Schedule AA1.
>   (2) D does not incur any liability in relation to the act that would not have been incurred if the cared-for person—
>     (a) had had capacity to consent in relation to D doing the act, and
>     (b) had consented to D doing the act.
>   (3) Nothing in this section excludes a person’s civil liability for loss or damage, or a person’s criminal liability, resulting from that person’s negligence in doing the act.
>   (4) Paragraph [31](#p00146) of Schedule AA1 applies if an authorisation ceases to have effect in certain cases.
>   (5) “Cared-for person” has the meaning given by paragraph [2(1)](#p00035) of that Schedule.

- (4) Before Schedule 1 insert the Schedule AA1 set out in Schedule 1 to this Act.

#### Deprivation of liberty: authorisation of steps necessary for life-sustaining treatment or vital act

##### 2

For section 4B of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 substitute—

> (4B)
>   (1) If Conditions 1 to 4 are met, D is authorised to take steps which deprive P of liberty.
>   (2) Condition 1 is that the steps—
>     (a) are wholly or partly for the purpose of giving P life-sustaining treatment or doing any vital act, or
>     (b) consist wholly or partly of giving P life-sustaining treatment or doing any vital act.
>   (3) A vital act is any act which the person doing it reasonably believes to be necessary to prevent a serious deterioration in P’s condition.
>   (4) Condition 2 is that the steps are necessary in order to give the life-sustaining treatment or do the vital act.
>   (5) Condition 3 is that D reasonably believes that P lacks capacity to consent to D taking the steps.
>   (6) Condition 4 is that—
>     (a) subsection [(7)](#p00017) applies, or
>     (b) there is an emergency.
>   (7) This subsection applies if—
>     (a) a decision relevant to whether D is authorised to deprive P of liberty is being sought from the court, or
>     (b) a responsible body is carrying out functions under Schedule AA1 with a view to determining whether to authorise arrangements that give rise to a deprivation of P’s liberty.
>   (8) In subsection [(7)](#p00017) it does not matter—
>     (a) whether the decision mentioned in paragraph [(a)](#p00018) relates to the steps mentioned in subsection [(1)](#p00015);
>     (b) whether the arrangements mentioned in paragraph [(b)](#p00019) include those steps.
>   (9) There is an emergency if D reasonably believes that—
>     (a) there is an urgent need to take the steps mentioned in subsection [(1)](#p00015) in order to give the life-sustaining treatment or do the vital act, and
>     (b) it is not reasonably practicable before taking those steps—
>       (i) to make an application for P to be detained under Part 2 of the Mental Health Act,
>       (ii) to make an application within subsection [(7)(a)](#p00018), or
>       (iii) to secure that action within subsection [(7)(b)](#p00019) is taken.

#### Powers of the court to determine questions

##### 3

After section 21 of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 insert—

> (21ZA)
>   (1) This section applies where an authorisation under Schedule AA1—
>     (a) has effect, or
>     (b) is to have effect from a date specified under paragraph [28](#p00136) of that Schedule.
>   (2) The court may determine any question relating to—
>     (a) whether Schedule AA1 applies to the arrangements, or whether the authorisation conditions are met;
>     (b) what period the authorisation has effect for;
>     (c) what the authorisation relates to.
>   (3) If the court determines a question under subsection [(2)](#p00022), the court may make an order—
>     (a) varying or terminating the authorisation;
>     (b) directing the responsible body to vary the authorisation.
>   (4) Where the court makes an order under subsection [(3)](#p00023) the court may make an order about a person’s liability for anything done in carrying out the arrangements before the variation or termination.
>   (5) An order under subsection [(4)](#p00024) may, in particular, exclude a person from liability.
>   (6) “Authorisation conditions” has the meaning given by paragraph [13](#p00082) of Schedule AA1.

### Code of practice etc

#### Deprivation of liberty: code of practice

##### 4

- (1) Section 42 of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (codes of practice) is amended as follows.

- (2) After subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) Guidance about what kinds of arrangements for enabling the care or treatment of a person fall within paragraph 2(1)(b) of Schedule AA1 must be included in the code, or one of the codes, issued under subsection (1).

- (3) After subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) Before the end of each review period the Lord Chancellor must—
>   (a) review each code for the guidance of persons exercising functions under Schedule AA1, and
>   (b) lay a report of the review before Parliament.
>   But this does not affect the Lord Chancellor’s functions under subsection (2).
> (2B) A review period is—
>   (a) in relation to the first review, the period of 3 years beginning with the day on which this subsection comes into force, and
>   (b) in relation to subsequent reviews, each period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the report of the previous review was laid before Parliament.

- (4) In subsection (3) after “preparation” insert “, review”.

### General

#### Consequential provision etc

##### 5

- (1) The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential on any provision made by this Act.

- (2) Regulations under this section—

- (a) may make different provision for different purposes or areas;

- (b) may amend, repeal or revoke any provision made by or under an Act passed before this Act or in the same Session.

- (3) The power to make regulations under this section is exercisable by statutory instrument.

- (4) Regulations under this section that repeal or amend a provision of an Act may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing them has been laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

- (5) Any other regulations under this section are subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

- (6) Schedule 2 makes minor and consequential amendments.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

##### 6

- (1) This Act extends to England and Wales only.

- (2) This section, and section 5 except subsection [(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/18/section/5/6/enacted), come into force on the day this Act is passed.

- (3) The other provisions of this Act come into force—

- (a) for the purpose only of enabling the exercise of any power to make regulations, on the day this Act is passed;

- (b) for all other purposes, on whatever day the Secretary of State appoints by regulations.

- (4) Different days may be appointed for different purposes or different areas.

- (5) The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

- (6) Regulations under subsection [(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2019/18/section/6/5/enacted) may make different provision for different purposes or different areas.

- (7) The power to make regulations under this section is exercisable by statutory instrument.

- (8) This Act may be cited as the Mental Capacity (Amendment) Act 2019.

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

## Part 1 — Amendments to the Mental Capacity Act 2005

##### 1

The Mental Capacity Act 2005 is amended as follows.

##### 2

Omit—

- (a) section 16A;

- (b) section 21A and the italic heading before it;

- (c) Schedules A1 and 1A.

##### 3

In section 35(1) (appointment of independent mental capacity advocates), for “available to” to the end substitute

> available to—
> (a) represent and support persons to whom acts or decisions proposed under sections 37, 38 and 39 relate,
> (b) represent and support cared-for persons where paragraph [42](#p00173) of Schedule AA1 applies, and
> (c) support appropriate persons where paragraph [43](#p00181) of Schedule AA1 applies.

##### 4

- (1) Section 36 (functions of independent mental capacity advocates) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (2)(a) leave out “(“P”) so that P” and insert “or support so that that person”.

- (3) In subsection (2)(c) leave out “P’s wishes and feelings” and insert “the wishes and feelings of the person the advocate has been instructed to represent (“P”)”.

- (4) After subsection (2)(d) insert—

> (da) in the case of an advocate instructed to support an appropriate person where paragraph [43](#p00181) of Schedule AA1 applies, supporting that person to ascertain—
>   (i) what the wishes and feelings of the cared-for person who that appropriate person represents and supports would be likely to be and the beliefs and values that would be likely to influence the cared-for person;
>   (ii) what alternative courses of action are available in relation to the cared-for person who that appropriate person represents and supports;

.

##### 5

- (1) Section 38 (provision of accommodation by NHS body) is amended as follows.

- (2) For subsection (2A) substitute—

> (2A) And this section does not apply if—
>   (a) an independent mental capacity advocate is appointed under paragraph [42](#p00173) of Schedule AA1 to represent and support P, and
>   (b) the arrangements which are authorised or proposed under Schedule AA1 in respect of P include arrangements for P to be accommodated in the hospital or care home referred to in this section.

- (3) In subsection (3), in the opening words, after “arrangements” insert “mentioned in subsection (1)”.

- (4) Omit subsection (10).

##### 6

- (1) Section 39 (provision of accommodation by local authority) is amended as follows.

- (2) For subsection (3A) substitute—

> (3A) And this section does not apply if—
>   (a) an independent mental capacity advocate is appointed under paragraph [42](#p00173) of Schedule AA1 to represent and support P, and
>   (b) the arrangements which are authorised or proposed under Schedule AA1 in respect of P include arrangements for P to be accommodated in the residential accommodation referred to in this section.

- (3) In subsection (4), in the opening words, after “arrangements” insert “mentioned in subsection (1)”.

- (4) Omit subsection (7).

##### 7

Omit sections 39A to 39E.

##### 8

In section 40 (exceptions)—

- (a) in subsection (1), for “, 39(4) or (5), 39A(3), 39C(3) or 39D(2)” substitute “or 39(4) or (5)”;

- (b) omit subsection (2).

##### 9

- (1) Section 42 (codes of practice) is amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1) for paragraphs (fa) and (fb) substitute—

> (fa) for the guidance of persons exercising functions under Schedule AA1,
> (fb) for the guidance of appropriate persons within paragraph [42(5)](#p00178) of Schedule AA1,

.

- (3) In subsection (4) for paragraphs (da) and (db) substitute—

> (da) in the exercise of functions under Schedule AA1,
> (db) as an appropriate person within paragraph [42(5)](#p00178) of Schedule AA1,

.

##### 10

In section 50 (applications to the Court of Protection) for subsection (1A) substitute—

> (1A) Nor is permission required for an application to the court under section 21ZA by any independent mental capacity advocate or appropriate person representing and supporting the cared-for person (see Part [5](#p00171) of Schedule AA1).

##### 11

In section 64 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

- (a) omit the entry relating to authorisation under Schedule A1, and

- (b) in the definition of “local authority”, for “Schedule A1” substitute “Schedule AA1”.

##### 12

- (1) Section 65 (rules, regulations etc) is amended as follows.

- (2) After subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) Any statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers under Schedule AA1 is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the National Assembly for Wales.

- (3) Omit subsections (4A) to (4C).

## Part 2 — Amendments to other legislation

#### Mental Health Act 2007 (c. 12)

##### 13

In Part 1 of Schedule 9 to the Mental Health Act 2007 (amendments to Mental Capacity Act 2005) omit paragraphs 2, 5(3), 6, 7(3) and (4), 8, 9, 10(2) and (3) and 11.
