---
title: "Deprivation of Citizenship Orders (Effect during Appeal) Act 2025"
identifier: "ukpga-2025-25"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2025-10-27"
last_updated: "2025-10-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2025/25"
department: "Statute Law Database"
last_modified_tna: "2025-11-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2025"
number: "25"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105702924"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2025-10-27"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Deprivation of Citizenship Orders (Effect during Appeal) Act 2025

#### Deprivation of citizenship order to continue to have effect during appeal

##### 1

- (1) In section 40A of the British Nationality Act 1981 (deprivation of citizenship: appeals), after subsection (2A) insert—

> (2B) Where—
>   (a) an order under section 40 is made in respect of a person, and
>   (b) the person appeals against the decision to make the order (under this section or under section 2B of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997),
> the order continues to have effect during the appeal period.
> (2C) The appeal period is the period—
>   (a) beginning with—
>     (i) the day on which the person appeals against the decision, or
>     (ii) if the order is made after that day, the day on which the order is made, and
>   (b) ending with the day on which the appeal is finally determined, withdrawn or abandoned.
> (2D) For the purposes of subsection [(2C)](#p00127) an appeal is not finally determined until the decision on the appeal, or on any further appeal, may not be overturned on a further appeal (ignoring the possibility of an appeal out of time with permission).

- (2) The reference to an appeal in section 40A[(2B)](#p00113)[(b)](#p00120) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (as inserted by [subsection (1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2025/25/section/1/1/enacted)) includes an appeal brought (but not finally determined, withdrawn or abandoned) before the day on which this Act is passed.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

- (2) This Act also extends to the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and the British overseas territories.

- (3) This Act comes into force on the day on which it is passed.

- (4) This Act may be cited as the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders (Effect during Appeal) Act 2025.
