---
title: "Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1998"
identifier: "ukpga-1998-43"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1998-11-19"
last_updated: "2015-05-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/43"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to promote the reform of the statute law by the repeal, in accordance with recommendations of the Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission, of certain enactments which (except in so far as their effect is preserved) are no longer of practical utility, and to make other provision in connection with the repeal of those enactments."
last_modified_tna: "2015-12-16"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1998"
number: "43"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105443980"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2015-05-26"
number_of_provisions: "19"
stats_total_paragraphs: "19"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "16"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1998

#### Repeals and associated provisions

##### 1

- (1) The enactments mentioned in Schedule 1 to this Act are repealed, and the instruments mentioned there are revoked, to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

- (2) Schedule 2 to this Act shall have effect.

#### Extent

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to Northern Ireland.

- (2) This Act also extends to the Isle of Man.

- (3) The repeal by this Act of—

- (a) the Public Notaries Act 1843 as it applies to the Isle of Man, and

- (b) the words “the Isle of Man,” in section 3(3) of the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1993,

shall come into force on such day as Her Majesty may appoint by Order in Council.

- (4) Her Majesty may by Order in Council provide—

- (a) that the repeal by this Act of any enactment specified in the Order shall on a date so specified extend to any of the Channel Islands or any colony, and

- (b) that any provision of Schedule 2 specified in the Order shall on a date so specified extend to any of the Channel Islands or any colony subject to any modification so specified.

- (5) Except as provided by any order under subsection (4), this Act does not repeal or amend any enactment so far as the enactment forms part of the law of a country outside the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man.

- (6) Subsections (4) and (5) apply to revocation of the whole or part of an instrument as they apply to repeal of an enactment.

#### Short title

##### 3

This Act may be cited as the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1998.

## SCHEDULE 1

## Part I — Administration of Justice

## Part II — Ecclesiastical Law

## Part III — Education

## Part IV — Finance

## Part V — Hereford and Worcester

## Part VI — Inclosure Acts

## Part VII — Scottish Local Acts

## Part VIII — Slave Trade Acts

## Part IX — Statutes

## Part X — Miscellaneous

## SCHEDULE 2

### Slave Trade Act 1824 (c. 113)

##### 1

In section 10 of the Slave Trade Act 1824 (persons dealing in slaves) except as it applies to Northern Ireland, for the words from “and are hereby declared” to the end substitute “ guilty of an offence and shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years ”.

##### 2

In section 11 of the Slave Trade Act 1824 (seamen etc, guilty of misdemeanour) for the words “and they are hereby declared to be guilty of a misdemeanour only” substitute “ guilty of an offence ”.

### Metropolitan Police Act 1839 (c. 47)

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Public Schools Act 1868 (c. 118)

##### 4

Before section 5 of the Public Schools Act 1868 there shall be inserted the following section—

> (4A)
>   (1) Every governing body established for a school to which this Act applies shall be a body corporate.
>   (2) The governing body of Harrow School shall be deemed to be incorporated by the name of “The Keepers and Governors of the Possessions, Revenues, and Goods of the Free Grammar School of John Lyon, within the town of Harrow-on-the-Hill” and shall be entitled to use as their common seal the seal of the former corporate body bearing the same name.

##### 5

Section 27 of the Public Schools Act 1868 (saving for rights of dean and chapter of Westminster) shall continue to have effect with the substitution of “ a part of ” for “apart from” (an amendment made by section 3 of the Public Schools Act 1869).

### Slave Trade Act 1873 (c. 88)

##### 6

In section 3 of the Slave Trade Act 1873, for the words “British possession” substitute “ colony ”.

### Colonial Stock Acts 1877 (c. 59) and 1892 (c. 35)

##### 7

The repeal by this Act of the Colonial Stock Act 1877 and the Colonial Stock Act 1892 shall not affect the continued operation of those Acts in relation to any unredeemed stock which immediately before the commencement of this Act was recorded by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue in accordance with section 1 of the Colonial Stock Act 1877 (registration of colonial stock with Commissioners of Inland Revenue).

### Sea Fisheries Act 1883 (c. 22)

##### 8

The repeal by this Act of the Sea Fisheries Act 1883 shall not affect the operation—

- (a) of any Order in Council under section 23 of that Act which is in force immediately before the coming into force of the repeal; or

- (b) of any provision of that Act which is applied by any such Order or by any provision of the Fisheries Act 1891 or the North Sea Fisheries Act 1893.

### Fisheries Act 1891 (c. 37)

##### 9

In section 6 of the Fisheries Act 1891 (construction, title and commencement of Part I of that Act), for subsection (3) substitute—

> (3) The Sea Fisheries (Scotland) Amendment Act 1885 and this Part of this Act may be cited collectively as the Sea Fisheries Acts 1885 to 1891.

.

### Finance Act 1931 (c. 28)

##### 10

In the Finance Act 1931, for Schedule 2 there shall be substituted the following Schedule (which reproduces the effect which that Schedule and section 28(6) had immediately before the coming into force of this Act)—

> **SCHEDULE 2**
>   (1) Any person required by section 28 of this Act to produce any instrument to the Commissioners shall furnish to the Commissioners with the instrument a document (signed by the transferee or lessee or by some person on his behalf and showing his address) giving particulars—
>     (a) of the description of the instrument;
>     (b) of the date of the instrument;
>     (c) of the names and addresses of the transferor and transferee or lessor and lessee;
>     (d) of the situation of the land to which the transaction relates, including any dimensions stated in the instrument and, if necessary for the identification of the land, a description of the boundaries of the land, or a plan;
>     (e) of the estate or interest transferred, including, where the transaction is the assignment or grant of a lease or the transfer of a fee simple subject to a lease, the term of the lease, the date of the commencement of the term and the rent reserved;
>     (f) of the consideration, if any, other than the rent shown under sub-paragraph (e), showing separately any capital payment, any debt released, any debt covenanted to be paid or to which the transaction is made subject, any periodical payment (including any charge) covenanted to be paid, any terms surrendered, any land exchanged and any other thing representing money or money’s worth comprised in the consideration for the transaction;
>     (g) of any minerals, mineral rights, sporting rights, timber or easements reserved, and of any restrictions, covenants or conditions affecting the value of the estate or interest transferred or granted; and
>     (h) of the information given to the transferee or lessee by any relevant authority when requested, in connection with the transaction, to state what entries (if any) relating to the land to which the transaction relates were shown in any relevant register.
>   (2) In paragraph 1(h)—
>     (a) in relation to land in England or Wales—
>       - “*relevant authority*” means a local planning authority within the meaning of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, and
>       - “*relevant register*” means a register kept by the authority under section 69(1) of that Act;
>     (b) in relation to land in Scotland—
>       - “*relevant authority*” means a local authority within the meaning of the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997, and
>       - “*relevant register*” means a register kept by the authority under section 36(1) of that Act.
>   (11) In section 2(4) of the Science and Technology Act 1965 (expenses, accounts etc, of Research Councils)—
>     (a) for the words “either Council” substitute “the Council”; and
>     (b) for the words “either of those Councils” substitute “the Council”.
>   (12)
>     (1) In paragraph 20 of Schedule 4 to the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (compensation where licence for parking place refused or limited) in sub-paragraph (a)(iii) for “specified operations within the meaning of section 64(3) of the Land Commission Act 1967” substitute “material operations within section 56(4) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990”.
>     (2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not affect the operation of paragraph 20 of Schedule 4 to the 1984 Act in a case where the notice referred to in that paragraph was published under paragraph 1 of that Schedule before the commencement of this Act.
>   (13) In section 30(4) of the Clean Air Act 1993, for the word “subsections” substitute “subsection”, and for the words “they apply” substitute “it applies”.

### Science and Technology Act 1965 (c. 4)

##### 11

In section 2(4) of the Science and Technology Act 1965 (expenses, accounts etc, of Research Councils)—

- (a) for the words “either Council” substitute “the Council”; and

- (b) for the words “either of those Councils” substitute “the Council”.

### Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (c. 27)

##### 12

- (1) In paragraph 20 of Schedule 4 to the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (compensation where licence for parking place refused or limited) in sub-paragraph (a)(iii) for “specified operations within the meaning of section 64(3) of the Land Commission Act 1967” substitute “material operations within section 56(4) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990”.

- (2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not affect the operation of paragraph 20 of Schedule 4 to the 1984 Act in a case where the notice referred to in that paragraph was published under paragraph 1 of that Schedule before the commencement of this Act.

### Clean Air Act 1993 (c. 11)

##### 13

In section 30(4) of the Clean Air Act 1993, for the word “subsections” substitute “subsection”, and for the words “they apply” substitute “it applies”.

#### Repeals and associated provisions.

### Slave Trade Act 1824 (c.113)

### Metropolitan Police Act 1839 (c.47)

### Public Schools Act 1868 (c.118)

### Slave Trade Act 1873 (c.88)

### Colonial Stock Acts 1877 (c.59) and 1892 (c.35)

### Sea Fisheries Act 1883 (c.22)

### Fisheries Act 1891 (c.37)

### Finance Act 1931 (c.28)

## Editorial notes

[^c1142298]: This Act extends to Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man; see [s. 2(1)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/43/section/2/1/2).

[^c1142299]: Part IX partly in force at Royal Assent; see [s. 2(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/43/section/2/3).

[^c1142300]: Part x partly in force at Royal Assent; see [s. 2(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/43/section/2/3).

[^c2035379]: [Sch. 2 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1998/43/schedule/2/paragraph/3) repealed (1.4.2005) by [Courts Act 2003 (c. 39)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/39), [ss. 109](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/39/section/109), [110](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/39/section/110), [Sch. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/39/schedule/10); [S.I. 2005/910](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2005/910), [art. 3(aa)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2005/910/article/3/aa)

[^key-42f09d21b0aa3ac1ed8e3e5e6dc2159c]: Sch. 2 para. 9 omitted (E.W.N.I.) (26.5.2015) by virtue of [Deregulation Act 2015 (c. 20)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/20), [s. 115(3)(r)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/20/section/115/3/r), [Sch. 23 para. 32(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/20/schedule/23/paragraph/32/4)
