---
title: "House of Lords Reform Act 2014"
identifier: "ukpga-2014-24"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2014-05-14"
last_updated: "2015-06-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/24"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision for resignation from the House of Lords; and to make provision for the expulsion of Members of the House of Lords in specified circumstances."
last_modified_tna: "2024-02-21"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2014"
number: "24"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105424147"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2024-01-16"
number_of_provisions: "7"
stats_total_paragraphs: "7"
stats_body_paragraphs: "7"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# House of Lords Reform Act 2014

#### Resignation

##### 1

- (1) A member of the House of Lords who is a peer may retire or otherwise resign as a member of the House of Lords by giving notice in writing to the Clerk of the Parliaments.

- (2) The notice must—

- (a) specify a date from which the resignation is to take effect, and

- (b) be signed by the peer and by a witness.

- (3) At the beginning of that date the peer ceases to be a member of the House of Lords.

- (4) Resignation may not be rescinded.

#### Non-attendance

##### 2

- (1) A member of the House of Lords who is a peer and does not attend the House of Lords during a Session ceases to be a member of the House at the beginning of the following Session.

- (2) A peer “does not attend the House of Lords during a Session” if, and only if, the Lord Speaker certifies that the peer—

- (a) at no time during the Session attended the House, having regard to attendance records kept by officials of the House, and

- (b) did not have leave of absence in respect of the Session, in accordance with Standing Orders of the House.

- (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a peer in respect of attendance during a Session if—

- (a) the peer was disqualified from sitting or voting in the House, or suspended from its service, for the whole of the Session, or

- (b) the House resolves that subsection (1) should not apply to the peer by reason of special circumstances.

- (4) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of attendance during a Session that is less than six months long.

- (5) In this section a reference to attendance is a reference to attending the proceedings of the House (including the proceedings of a Committee of the House).

- (6) This section applies in respect of attendance during the first Session to begin after its coming into force and subsequent Sessions.

#### Conviction of serious offence

##### 3

- (1) A member of the House of Lords who is convicted of a serious offence ceases to be a member of the House of Lords.

- (2) A person “is convicted of a serious offence” if, and only if, the Lord Speaker certifies that the person, while a member of the House of Lords, has been—

- (a) convicted of a criminal offence, and

- (b) sentenced or ordered to be imprisoned or detained indefinitely or for more than one year.

- (3) It is irrelevant for the purposes of subsection (2)—

- (a) whether the offence is committed at a time when the person is a member of the House of Lords;

- (b) whether any of the offence, conviction, sentence, order, imprisonment or detention occurs in the United Kingdom or elsewhere; (but see subsection (9)).

- (4) The reference in subsection (2) to an offence is only to an offence committed on or after the day on which this section comes into force.

- (5) The reference in subsection (2) to a person being sentenced or ordered to be imprisoned or detained indefinitely or for more than one year does not include such a sentence or order where the sentence or order is suspended.

- (6) A certificate under subsection (2) takes effect when it is issued.

- (7) If a person who has ceased to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this section is successful on appeal—

- (a) the Lord Speaker must issue a further certificate to that effect, and

- (b) on the issue of that certificate, the original certificate under subsection (2) shall be treated for the purposes of this Act as never having had effect.

- (8) A person who has ceased to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this section “is successful on appeal” if, and only if, the Lord Speaker certifies that—

- (a) the conviction certified under subsection (2)(a) has been quashed, or

- (b) the sentence or order certified under subsection (2)(b) has been—

- (i) varied so that it is no longer a sentence or order that the person be imprisoned or detained indefinitely or for more than one year within the meaning of subsection (2)(b), or

- (ii) replaced with another sentence or order that is not a sentence or order that the person be so imprisoned or detained.

- (9) A certificate under subsection (2) in respect of a conviction outside the United Kingdom may be issued only if the House of Lords resolves that subsection (1) should apply; and where the House does so resolve the Lord Speaker must issue the certificate.

#### Effect of ceasing to be a member

##### 4

- (1) This section applies where a person ceases to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this Act.

- (2) The person becomes disqualified from attending the proceedings of the House of Lords (including the proceedings of a Committee of the House).

- (3) Accordingly, the person shall not be entitled to receive a writ to attend the House (whether under section 1 of the Life Peerages Act 1958, by virtue of the dignity conferred by virtue of appointment as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary, by virtue of a hereditary peerage or as a Lord Spiritual) and may not attend the House in pursuance of a writ already received.

- (4) If the person is a hereditary peer who is excepted from section 1 of the House of Lords Act 1999 by virtue of section 2 of that Act, the person ceases to be excepted from section 1 of that Act (and accordingly section 3 of that Act applies (removal of disqualification on voting in parliamentary elections or being an MP)).

- (5) If the person is a peer other than a hereditary peer, the person is not, by virtue of that peerage, disqualified for—

- (a) voting at elections to the House of Commons, or

- (b) being, or being elected as, a member of that House.

- (6) In relation to a peer who ceases to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this Act, any reference in section 1(3) or (4)(b) of the Representation of the People Act 1985 to a register of parliamentary electors is to be read as including—

- (a) any register of local government electors in Great Britain, and

- (b) any register of local electors in Northern Ireland,

which was required to be published on any date before the date on which the peer ceased to be a member.

- (7) The Standing Orders of the House required by section 2(4) of the House of Lords Act 1999 (filling of vacancies) must make provision requiring the holding of a by-election to fill any vacancy which arises under this Act among the people excepted from section 1 of that Act in consequence of an election.

- (8) Subject to section 3(7), a person who ceases to be a member of the House of Lords in accordance with this Act may not subsequently become a member of that House.

#### Certificate of Lord Speaker

##### 5

- (1) A certificate of the Lord Speaker under this Act shall be conclusive for all purposes.

- (2) A certificate may be issued on the Lord Speaker's own initiative.

#### Interpretation

##### 6

- (1) For the purposes of this Act a person is a member of the House of Lords if the person is entitled to receive writs of summons to attend that House.

- (2) In determining whether a person is so entitled, ignore—

- (a) section 2 of the Forfeiture Act 1870 (disqualification on conviction of treason);

- (b) sections 426A and 427 of the Insolvency Act 1986 (disqualification on insolvency);

- (c) regulation 4 of the European Parliament (House of Lords Disqualification) Regulations 2008 (S.I. 2008/1647) (disqualification where MEP).

- (d) section 1(3) of the House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015 (suspension).

- (3) In this Act “*peer*” includes a person upon whom a dignity has been conferred by virtue of appointment as a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary.

#### Short title, commencement and extent

##### 7

- (1) This Act may be cited as the House of Lords Reform Act 2014.

- (2) Sections 1 and 2 of this Act shall come into force at the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

- (3) The remaining provisions of this Act shall come into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

- (4) This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Resignation

## Editorial notes

[^key-6dff311bb2f885bf3b51e5ff1ffedf67]: [S. 6(2)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/24/section/6/2/d) inserted (26.6.2015) by [House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/14), [ss. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/14/section/2), [4(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/14/section/4/2)
