---
title: "Agricultural Training Board Act 1987 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1987-29"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1987-05-15"
last_updated: "1987-05-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/29"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make further provision with respect to the functions of the Agricultural Training Board."
last_modified_tna: "2014-12-01"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1987"
number: "29"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
restrict_start_date: "2004-07-22"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Agricultural Training Board Act 1987 (repealed)

#### Training in connection with activities outside the agricultural industry.

##### 1

- (1) After subsection (1)(b) of section 4 of the Agricultural Training Board Act 1982 (functions of the Board) there shall be inserted the following paragraph—

> (bb) shall provide or secure the provision of such courses and other facilities (which may include residential accommodation) for the purposes mentioned in section 5A(1) below as may be required, having regard to any courses or facilities otherwise available for those purposes;

.

- (2) After section 5 of that Act there shall be inserted the following section—

> (5A)
>   (1) The purposes for which the Board shall provide or secure the provision of courses and other facilities under section 4(1)(bb) above are—
>     (a) the training, in skills relevant to the carrying on of activities not comprised within the industry, of—
>       (i) persons who are or have been employed in the industry; or
>       (ii) members of the families of any such persons,
>     with a view to the diversification of the trades or businesses carried on by persons employed in the industry; and
>     (b) the training in amenity skills of persons who are not employed in the industry.
>   (2) In this section “amenity skills” means skills which are relevant to—
>     (a) the development, improvement, conservation or maintenance of land for sporting, recreational or environmental purposes; or
>     (b) the rearing or care of animals for any such purposes (excluding the training of animals for any such purposes);
>   and for the purposes of this definition “animals” includes birds and fish.
>   (3) Before providing or securing the provision of any courses or other facilities under section 4(1)(bb) above for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above, the Board shall consult the Ministers.
>   (4) It shall be the duty of the Board so to conduct its affairs as to secure that such of its revenues as are derived from the exercise of functions under section 4(1)(bb) above become at the earliest possible date, and continue thereafter, at least sufficient to enable it to meet such of its expenditure as is incurred in connection with the exercise of those functions.

.

- (3) In section 7 of that Act (disclosure of information to the Board), after “section 4(1)(a)” there shall be inserted “or (bb)”.

- (4) In section 8(1A) of that Act (reports and accounts), the following paragraph shall be inserted before paragraph (a)—

> (aa) the exercise by it of functions under section 4(1)(bb) above;

.

#### Short title, commencement and extent.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Training Board Act 1987.

- (2) This Act shall come into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.

#### Training in connection with activities outside the agricultural industry.

## Editorial notes

[^key-d6581a067313a60ee72d0f526e4ce981]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/29) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 2
