---
title: "Marine Safety Act 2003"
identifier: "ukpga-2003-16"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2003-07-10"
last_updated: "2003-07-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/16"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision about the giving of directions in respect of ships for purposes relating to safety or pollution and about the taking of action to enforce, in connection with, or in lieu of, directions; to make provision about fire-fighting in connection with marine incidents; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2015-06-18"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2003"
number: "16"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105416037"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2004-11-10"
number_of_provisions: "34"
stats_total_paragraphs: "40"
stats_body_paragraphs: "7"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "33"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Marine Safety Act 2003

#### Safety directions

##### 1

- (1) The following shall be inserted in Part IV of the Merchant Shipping Act [1995 (c. 21)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/21) (safety) after section 108 (births and deaths)—

> (108A)
>   (1) Schedule 3A (safety directions) shall have effect.
>   (2) A provision made by or by virtue of this Act (including one which creates an offence) shall have no effect in so far as it—
>     (a) is inconsistent with the exercise by or on behalf of the Secretary of State of a power under Schedule 3A (safety directions),
>     (b) would interfere with a person’s compliance with a direction under that Schedule, or
>     (c) would interfere with action taken by virtue of that Schedule.

- (2) Before Schedule 4 to that Act there shall be inserted new Schedule 3A set out in Schedule 1 to this Act.

#### Fire authorities: power to charge

##### 2

- (1) Section 3 of the Fire Services Act [1947 (c. 41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1947/41) (fire authority: supplementary powers) shall be amended as follows.

- (2) In subsection (1)(e) (purposes other than fire-fighting) after “suitable” insert “(whether in their area, in another authority’s area or at sea (whether or not within the territorial sea of the United Kingdom))”.

- (3) After subsection (4) (charges) insert—

> (4A) A fire authority in England or Wales may make a charge for a service which is rendered for fire-fighting purposes—
>   (a) under subsection (1)(dd) above, and
>   (b) outside the area of every fire authority in Great Britain.

- (4) At the end of section 37 of the Fire Services Act [1947 (c. 41)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1947/41) (Isles of Scilly) there shall be added “; and for the purposes of section 3(4A) the Council is a fire authority in England.”

#### Amendments and repeals

##### 3

- (1) Schedule 2 (minor and consequential amendments) shall have effect.

- (2) The enactments listed in Schedule 3 are hereby repealed to the extent specified.

#### Commencement

##### 4

This Act shall come into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the date on which it is passed.

#### Extent

##### 5

- (1) This Act extends to the whole of the United Kingdom.

- (2) But section 2 extends to England and Wales only.

#### Short Title

##### 6

This Act may be cited as the Marine Safety Act 2003.

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

#### Dangerous Vessels Act 1985 (c. 22)

##### 1

The following shall be inserted after section 6 of the Dangerous Vessels Act 1985 (saving)—

> (6A) Directions under section 1 of this Act shall have no effect in so far as they—
>   (a) are inconsistent with the exercise by or on behalf of the Secretary of State of a power under Schedule 3A to the Merchant Shipping Act [1995 (c. 21)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/21) (safety directions),
>   (b) would interfere with a person’s compliance with a direction under that Schedule, or
>   (c) would interfere with action taken by virtue of that Schedule.

#### Merchant Shipping Act 1995 (c. 21)

##### 2

The following provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 shall cease to have effect—

- (a) sections 100C to 100E (movement of ship), and

- (b) sections 137 to 141 (pollution directions).

## SCHEDULE 3
