---
title: "Appropriation Act 2005 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-2005-3"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2005-03-17"
last_updated: "2005-03-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/3"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the use of resources for the service of the years ending with 31st March 2004 and 31st March 2005 and to apply certain sums out of the Consolidated Fund to the service of the years ending with 31st March 2004 and 31st March 2005; and to appropriate the supply authorised in this Session of Parliament for the service of the years ending with 31st March 2004 and 31st March 2005."
last_modified_tna: "2015-01-30"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2005"
number: "3"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105403059"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2007-07-19"
number_of_provisions: "34"
stats_total_paragraphs: "39"
stats_body_paragraphs: "6"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "33"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Appropriation Act 2005 (repealed)

#### Use of resources for the year that ended with 31st March 2004

##### 1

The use of resources for the service of the year that ended with 31st March 2004 is authorised to the amount of £69,497,995.67.

#### Issue out of the Consolidated Fund for the year that ended with 31st March 2004

##### 2

The Treasury may issue out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom and apply to the service of the year that ended with 31st March 2004 the sum of £67,597,194.64.

#### Use of resources for the year ending with 31st March 2005

##### 3

The use of resources for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2005 is authorised to the amount of £7,067,482,000.

#### Issue out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending with 31st March 2005

##### 4

The Treasury may issue out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom and apply to the service of the year ending with 31st March 2005 the sum of £6,073,788,000.

#### Appropriation of amounts and sums voted for supply services and limits on appropriations in aid

##### 5

- (1) All the amounts and sums authorised by this Act and the other Act mentioned in Schedule 1 to this Act, for the service of the year that ended with 31st March 2004 and of the year ending with 31st March 2005, totalling, as is shown in the said Schedule, £13,879,870,995.67 in amounts of resources authorised for use and £13,763,310,194.64 in sums authorised for issue from the Consolidated Fund, are appropriated, and shall be deemed to have been appropriated as from the date of the passing of the Acts mentioned in the said Schedule 1, for the services and purposes specified in Schedule 2 to this Act.

- (2) Part 1 of Schedule 2 also sets out modifications of the limits set for the purposes of section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act [2000 (c. 20)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2000/20) on the resources applicable as appropriations in aid for the year that ended with 31st March 2004.

- (3) Part 2 of Schedule 2 also sets out, for the services and purposes specified in that Part of that Schedule, modifications of the limits set for the purposes of section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 on the resources applicable as appropriations in aid for the year ending with 31st March 2005.

- (4) The limits as modified by Part 1 of Schedule 2 shall be deemed to have been in force from 22nd February 2005.

- (5) The limits as modified by Part 2 of Schedule 2 shall be deemed to have been in force from 15th November 2004.

- (6) Subsection (5), so far as it relates to—

- (a) a reduction set out in the Table in Part 2 of Schedule 2, or

- (b) a modification so set out which, according to a note to that Part, comprises a reduction,

does not affect the validity of anything to which subsection (7) applies.

- (7) This subsection applies to anything done in accordance with a direction given for the purposes of section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 during the year ending with 31st March 2005 if (disregarding subsection (5)) —

- (a) at the time it was done the direction complied with the limit set under a previous Appropriation Act, or

- (b) that direction would have complied with the limit then in force if that limit had, for the period ending with 22nd February 2005, been increased as mentioned in the note in question.

- (8) The payment of amounts into the Consolidated Fund is not required (by or under any enactment or otherwise) to the extent that permission for their retention is given by the Treasury in anticipation of the giving of directions, by reference to a Statement of Excesses, that will authorise the application of the amounts as appropriations in aid for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2005; but—

- (a) a permission for the purposes of this subsection expires with the giving by reference to a Statement of Excesses of any direction that authorises the application of resources as appropriations in aid in relation to the Request for Resources or Estimate to which the amounts in question are referable; and

- (b) if, having given such a permission, the Treasury decide before its expiry not to give the anticipated direction, they must withdraw the permission on making the decision.

- (9) The abstracts of Schedule 1 and of Schedule 2 which are annexed to this Act shall have effect as part of this Act.

#### Short title

##### 6

This Act may be cited as the Appropriation Act 2005.

## ABSTRACT OF SCHEDULE 1

## ABSTRACT OF SCHEDULE 2

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

## Part 1 — Excesses, 2003–04

Table of—

#### Note

##### 1

Revised ambit. Parliamentary authority is required to cover expenditure within previously voted resource limits but outside the coverage of the original ambit. The revised ambit includes the additional wording “the provision of resources to police authorities to facilitate the independent investigation of complaints and allegations against departmental staff”.

## Part 2 — Supplementary, 2004–05

Table of—

### * Represents an overall reduction

#### Notes

##### 2

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Department for Education and Skills Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £1,106,794,000, and

- (b) an increase of £17,963,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 2 of that Estimate (see also Note 3).

##### 3

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 2 of the Department for Education and Skills Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £194,259,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £17,963,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 1 of that Estimate (see also Note 2).

##### 4

The modification set out in the Table of the limit set on the resources applicable as non-operating appropriations in aid in respect of the Department for Transport Estimate comprises—

- (a) an increase of the limit of £2,334,000, and

- (b) a subsequent reduction of the limit of £1,058,000.

##### 5

The increase of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £837,512,000,

- (b) a reduction of £4,721,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Welsh Assembly Government with a related increase in sums for the Department of Constitutional Affairs (see also Note 7), and

- (c) an increase of £370,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Cabinet Office (see also Note 26).

##### 6

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £196,480,000,

- (b) a reduction of £4,721,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Welsh Assembly Government with a related increase in resources for Request for Resources 3 of the Department for Constitutional Affairs Estimate (see also Note 8), and

- (c) an increase of £370,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Cabinet Office (see also Note 27).

##### 7

The increase of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the Department for Constitutional Affairs Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £1,220,794,000, and

- (b) an increase of £4,721,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to the Welsh Assembly Government (see also Note 5).

##### 8

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 3 of the Department for Constitutional Affairs Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £380,141,000, and

- (b) an increase of £4,721,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister to the Welsh Assembly Government (see also Note 6).

##### 9

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Ministry of Defence Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £364,763,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £23,562,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 2 of that Estimate (see also Note 10).

##### 10

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 2 of the Ministry of Defence Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £875,962,000, and

- (b) an increase of £23,562,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of that Estimate (see also Note 9).

##### 11

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £73,785,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £9,726,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 2 of that Estimate (see also Note 12).

##### 12

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 2 of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £206,360,000, and

- (b) an increase of £9,726,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of that Estimate (see also Note 11).

##### 13

The increase of sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the Department of Trade and Industry Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £1,293,850,000, and

- (b) an increase of £2,585,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Cabinet Office (see also Note 26).

##### 14

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Department and Trade and Industry Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £321,906,000, and

- (b) an increase of £2,585,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from the Cabinet Office (see also Note 27).

##### 15

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 2 of the Department for Work and Pensions Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £1,035,199,000, and

- (b) an increase of £4,112,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 4 of that Estimate (see also Note 16).

##### 16

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 4 of the Department for Work and Pensions Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £118,407,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £4,112,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 2 of that Estimate (see also Note 15).

##### 17

The modification set out in the Table of the limit set on the resources applicable as operating appropriations in aid in respect of Request for Resources 6 of the Department for Work and Pensions Estimate comprises—

- (a) an increase of the limit of £126,982,000, and

- (b) a subsequent reduction of the limit of £529,183,000.

##### 18

The increase of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the HM Treasury Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £20,984,000,

- (b) an increase of £2,964,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from Inland Revenue (see also Note 22), and

- (c) an increase of £1,271,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from HM Customs and Excise (see also Note 20).

##### 19

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the HM Treasury Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £3,649,000,

- (b) an increase of £2,964,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from Inland Revenue (see also Note 23), and

- (c) an increase of £1,271,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions from HM Customs and Excise (see also Note 21).

##### 20

The increase of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the HM Customs and Excise Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £90,736,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £1,271,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to HM Treasury (see also Note 18).

##### 21

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the HM Customs and Excise Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £137,733,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £1,271,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to HM Treasury (see also Note 19).

##### 22

The increase of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of Inland Revenue Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary sums totalling £248,550,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £2,964,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to HM Treasury (see also Note 18).

##### 23

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Inland Revenue Estimates comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £134,263,000,

- (b) a reduction of £2,964,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to HM Treasury (see also Note 19),

- (c) an increase of £5,000,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 3 of the Inland Revenue Estimate (see also Note 24), and

- (d) an increase of £128,529,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources previously authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 5 of that Estimate (see also Note 25).

##### 24

The increase of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 3 of the Inland Revenue Estimate comprises—

- (a) supplementary resources totalling £3,000,000, and

- (b) a reduction of £5,000,000 in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 1 of that Estimate (see also Note 23).

##### 25

The reduction of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 5 of the Inland Revenue Estimate is in consequence of a reallocation of resources to Request for Resources 1 of that Estimate (see also Note 23).

##### 26

The reduction of the sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the Cabinet Office Estimate comprises—

- (a) a reduction of £2,585,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Department of Trade and Industry (see also Note 13), and

- (b) a reduction of £370,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (see also Note 5).

##### 27

The reduction of the resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Cabinet Office Estimate comprises—

- (a) a reduction of £2,585,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Department of Trade and Industry (see also Note 14), and

- (b) a reduction of £370,000 in consequence of a transfer of functions to the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (see also Note 6).

##### 28

The modification set out in the Table of the limit set on the resources applicable as non-operating appropriations in aid in respect of the Security and Intelligence Agencies Estimate comprises—

- (a) an increase of the limit of £5,000, and

- (b) a subsequent reduction of the limit of £150,000.

#### Use of resources for the year that ended with 31st March 2004

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Note

### Notes

## Editorial notes

[^key-8f7def793097d6a177496ac899bf0ff6]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/3) repealed (19.7.2007) by [Appropriation (No. 2) Act 2007 (c. 10)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2007/10), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2007/10/schedule/3)
