---
title: "Education (Guidance about Costs of School Uniforms) Act 2021"
identifier: "ukpga-2021-20"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2021-04-29"
last_updated: "2021-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/20"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision for guidance to schools about the costs aspects of school uniform policies."
last_modified_tna: "2021-05-17"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2021"
number: "20"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105701194"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2021-06-29"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Education (Guidance about Costs of School Uniforms) Act 2021

#### Guidance about the costs of school uniforms: England

##### 1

In the Education Act 1996, after section 551 insert—

> (551A)
>   (1) The Secretary of State must issue guidance to the appropriate authorities of relevant schools in England about the costs aspects of school uniform policies.
>   (2) In this section “costs aspects of school uniform policies” means any aspects of school uniform policies that the Secretary of State considers relevant to the costs of school uniforms.
>   (3) The appropriate authority of a relevant school must have regard to guidance issued under this section when developing and implementing a school uniform policy for the school.
>   (4) The Secretary of State may from time to time revise guidance issued under this section.
>   (5) In this section “relevant school” means—
>     (a) an Academy school;
>     (b) an alternative provision Academy;
>     (c) a maintained school (within the meaning given by section 437(8));
>     (d) a non-maintained special school (within the meaning given by section 337A);
>     (e) a pupil referral unit not established in a hospital.
>   (6) In this section “the appropriate authority” means—
>     (a) in relation to an Academy school, an alternative provision Academy or a non-maintained special school, the proprietor;
>     (b) in relation to a maintained school, the governing body;
>     (c) in relation to a pupil referral unit, the local authority.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to England and Wales.

- (2) This Act comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act may be cited as the Education (Guidance about Costs of School Uniforms) Act 2021.
