---
title: "Agricultural Training Board Act 1985 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1985-36"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1985-07-16"
last_updated: "1985-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/36"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision with respect to the functions of the Agricultural Training Board."
last_modified_tna: "2015-08-20"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1985"
number: "36"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
restrict_start_date: "2004-07-22"
number_of_provisions: "4"
stats_total_paragraphs: "4"
stats_body_paragraphs: "4"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Agricultural Training Board Act 1985 (repealed)

#### Training of persons overseas.

##### 1

- (1) For subsection (1) of section 5 of the Agricultural Training Board Act 1982 (training for employment overseas) there shall be substituted the following subsections—

> (1) The Board may, with the consent of the Ministers, exercise such functions in connection with training for equivalent employment outside Great Britain as are exercisable by it under the relevant provisions in connection with training for employment in the industry.
> (1A) In subsection (1) above ' the relevant provisions' means—
>   (a) in relation to the training of persons in Great Britain, section 4(1) and (4) above; and
>   (b) in relation to the training of persons outside Great Britain, paragraphs (a), (e), (g), (k) and (1) of section 4(1) above.

- (2) After subsection (2) of that section there shall be inserted the following subsection—

> (3) It shall be the duty of the Board so to conduct its affairs as to secure that such of its revenues as are derived from the exercise of functions under subsection (1) above in connection with the training of persons outside Great Britain become at the earliest possible date, and continue thereafter, at least sufficient to enable it to meet such of its expenditure as is incurred in connection with the exercise of those functions.

- (3) After subsection (1) of section 8 of that Act (report and accounts) there shall be inserted the following subsection—

> (1A) The duties imposed on the Board by subsection (1) above shall apply separately in relation to—
>   (a) the exercise by it of functions under section 5(1) above in connection with the training of persons outside Great Britain; and
>   (b) the exercise by it of other functions under this Act.

#### Furnishing of information by the Board.

##### 2

After section 7 of the Agricultural Training Board Act 1982 there shall be inserted the following section—

> (7A)
>   (1) The Board shall furnish the Ministers with such information relating to its property and the discharge and proposed discharge of its functions as they may require, and for that purpose it shall permit any person authorised by the Ministers to inspect and make copies of any accounts or other documents of the Board and give such explanation of them as that person or the Ministers may require.
>   (2) The Board shall also permit the Comptroller and Auditor General to inspect and make copies of any accounts or other documents of the Board and give such explanation of them as the Comptroller may require.

#### Financial provision.

##### 3

There shall be paid out of money provided by Parliament any increase attributable to this Act in the sums so payable under any other enactment.

#### Short title, commencement and extent.

##### 4

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Training Board Act 1985.

- (2) This Act shall come into force at the end of the period of two months beginning on the day on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.

#### Training of persons overseas.

## Editorial notes

[^key-cb76d397402dfe4b7966913d1299bc97]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1985/36) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 2
