---
title: "Firearms (Amendment) Act 1992"
identifier: "ukpga-1992-31"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1992-03-16"
last_updated: "1992-03-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1992/31"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to empower the Secretary of State to extend the period for which firearm and shot gun certificates are granted or renewed."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1992"
number: "31"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "1992-03-16"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Firearms (Amendment) Act 1992

#### Duration of firearm and shot gun certificates

##### 1

- (1) In section 26 of the Firearms Act 1968—

- (a) in subsection (3) the words “, or such shorter period as may be prescribed,” and the words “, or a further prescribed period,” shall be omitted; and

- (b) after that subsection there shall be inserted—

> (3A) The Secretary of State may by order provide that subsection (3) above shall have effect as if the references to three years were references to such other period as is specified by the order.
> (3B) An order made under subsection (3A) above shall apply only to certificates granted or renewed after the date on which the order comes into force.
> (3C) The power to make orders under subsection (3A) above shall be exercisable by statutory instrument and any statutory instrument containing such an order shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

- (2) In section 11(1) of the Firearms (Amendment) Act 1988 for the words “or prescribed under section 26(3)” there shall be substituted the words “subsection (3), or in an order made under subsection (3A), of section 26”.

#### Northern Ireland

##### 2

- (1) Section 1 above does not extend to Northern Ireland.

- (2) An Order in Council under paragraph 1(1)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Act 1974 (legislation for Northern Ireland in the interim period) which states that it is made only for purposes corresponding to those of section 1 above—

- (a) shall not be subject to paragraph 1(4) and (5) of that Schedule (affirmative resolution of both Houses of Parliament); but

- (b) shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House.

#### Citation

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Firearms (Amendment) Act 1992.

- (2) This Act and the Firearms Acts 1968 to 1988 may be cited together as the Firearms Acts 1968 to 1992.
