---
title: "Agricultural Marketing Act 1983 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-1983-3"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1983-03-01"
last_updated: "2004-07-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to establish a body corporate to be known as Food from Britain to improve the marketing of food produced or processed in the United Kingdom and of other agricultural produce of the United Kingdom; to transfer to Food from Britain the functions of the Central Council for Agricultural and Horticultural Co-operation and to dissolve the Central Council; to enable certain other marketing organisations to make contributions to Food from Britain; and to repeal section 61(9) of the Agriculture Ac"
last_modified_tna: "2015-12-17"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1983"
number: "3"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2014-07-18"
number_of_provisions: "30"
stats_total_paragraphs: "31"
stats_body_paragraphs: "10"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "21"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Agricultural Marketing Act 1983 (repealed)

#### Food from Britain

##### 1

- (1) There shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this Act a council to be known as Food from Britain.

- (2) The council shall consist of no fewer than thirteen and no more than twenty-one members appointed by the Ministers; and in making any such appointment the Ministers shall have regard to the interests of the agriculture and horticulture industry (including agricultural and horticultural co-operatives) and food manufacturing and distributive industries in the United Kingdom.

- (3) The Ministers shall appoint one member to be chairman and another to be deputy chairman of Food from Britain.

- (4) Schedule 1 to this Act shall have effect with respect to Food from Britain.

- (5) In Part II of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 and Part II of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act 1975 (bodies of which all members are disqualified under those Acts) there shall be inserted at the appropriate place in alphabetical order—

“Food from Britain”.

#### Functions of Food from Britain

##### 2

- (1) The functions of the Central Council for Agricultural and Horticultural Co-operation are hereby transferred to Food from Britain.

- (2) Food from Britain shall have power to organise, develop, promote, encourage and co-ordinate the marketing in the United Kingdom and elsewhere of—

- (a) agricultural and horticultural produce of the United Kingdom;

- (b) fish, other than sea fish, and fish products made in the United Kingdom; and

- (c) any other food produced or processed in the United Kingdom.

- (3) Food from Britain shall put itself in a position to advise Ministers on matters connected with any of its functions.

#### Central Council for Agricultural and Horticultural Cooperation

##### 3

- (1) Immediately after the coming into force of section 2 above the Central Council for Agricultural and Horticultural Co-operation shall be dissolved.

- (2) Schedule 2 to this Act shall have effect with respect to the dissolution of the Central Council and the transfer of functions under section 2(1) above.

#### Contributions by marketing organisations

##### 4

- (1) Without prejudice to section 6(2) below, any body to which this section applies may make contributions by way of grant or loan to Food from Britain of such amount as it thinks fit towards the expenses incurred or to be incurred by Food from Britain in connection with any of its functions other than the transferred functions.

- (2) This section applies to the following bodies, namely—

- (a) any board established under a scheme made (whether before or after the coming into force of this section) under Part I of the Agricultural Marketing Act 1958 or the Agricultural Marketing Act (Northern Ireland) 1964 or the Agricultural Marketing (Northern Ireland) Order 1982;

- (b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (c) the Home-Grown Cereals Authority established under Part I of the Cereals Marketing Act 1965;

- (d) the Meat and Livestock Commission established under Part I of the Agriculture Act 1967;

- (e) the Livestock Marketing Commission for Northern Ireland established under the Livestock Marketing Commission Act (Northern Ireland) 1967;

- (f) the Apple and Pear Development Council established under the Apple and Pear Development Council Order 1966; and

- (g) the Scottish Seed Potato Development Council established under the Scottish Seed Potato Development Council Order 1981.

- (3) The functions of any body to which this section applies for the purposes of which any person or class of persons is or may be required to make contributions (whether by way of levy or otherwise) to the body shall include the function conferred on the body by subsection (1) above and the provisions of any enactment or other instrument relating to such contributions shall have effect accordingly.

#### Accounts and annual reports

##### 5

- (1) Food from Britain shall—

- (a) keep proper accounting records in such form as the Ministers may, with the consent of the Treasury, determine; and

- (b) prepare a statement of accounts in respect of each financial year.

- (2) The statement of accounts shall give a true and fair view of the state of Food from Britain’s affairs at the end of the financial year and of its income and expenditure in the financial year, and shall comply with any directions given by the Ministers with the consent of the Treasury as to the information to be contained in the statement or the manner in which it is to be presented or as to the methods and principles according to which the statement is to be prepared.

- (3) The statement of accounts in respect of each financial year ending on or before 31st March 2003 shall be audited by persons to be appointed in respect of each such financial year by the Ministers, and the auditors so appointed shall be furnished by Food from Britain with copies of the statement of accounts for any financial year not later than 30th June following the end of that year.

- (4) The auditors appointed under subsection (3) shall complete their audit and send the Ministers copies of the statement of accounts and of their report on the statement as soon as possible after the end of the financial year to which they relate and in any event not later than 30th September following the end of that year.

- (5) A person shall not be appointed auditor under subsection (3) unless he is eligible for appointment as a company auditor under section 25 of the Companies Act 1989.

- (5A) Food from Britain shall send a copy of the statement of accounts prepared under subsection (1) in respect of each financial year ending on or after 31st March 2004 to the Comptroller and Auditor General as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the financial year to which the statement relates.

- (5B) The Comptroller and Auditor General shall examine, certify and report on each statement of accounts sent to him by Food from Britain under subsection (5A).

- (6) As soon as possible after the end of any financial year and in any event not later than 30th September following the end of that year Food from Britain shall prepare and submit to the Ministers a report of what has been done in the discharge of its functions in that year.

- (7) The Ministers shall lay before Parliament copies of the report for any financial year made under subsection (6) above together with copies of the statement of accounts and of the auditor’s report for that year.

- (8) The Ministers and the Comptroller and Auditor General shall be entitled to inspect all books, papers and other records of Food from Britain relating to or to matters dealt with in any statement of accounts required to be prepared pursuant to this section.

- (9) The first financial year of Food from Britain shall be the period beginning with the coming into force of this section and ending with 31st March 1984; and any subsequent period of twelve months ending with 31st March shall be a financial year of Food from Britain.

#### Borrowing powers, etc. of Food from Britain

##### 6

- (1) Food from Britain may borrow money or make loans in accordance with this section but not otherwise.

- (2) Food from Britain may borrow temporarily (by way of overdraft or otherwise and in any currency) such sums as it may require for the purpose of financing any of its functions other than the transferred functions; but the aggregate amount outstanding by way of principal of any sums so borrowed shall not exceed £500,000.

- (3) Food from Britain may borrow any such sums—

- (a) from the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food or the Secretary of State for Scotland or the Secretary of State for Wales or the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, or

- (b) with the consent of the Ministers and the Treasury, from any other person.

- (4) Food from Britain may with the consent of the Ministers make such grants or loans as it thinks fit in pursuance of any of its functions other than the transferred functions.

#### Grants, etc. by Ministers

##### 7

- (1) The Ministers may with the approval of the Treasury make grants to Food from Britain in respect of any expenses incurred or to be incurred in connection with any of its functions other than the transferred functions and such grants may be made subject to such conditions as the Ministers may with the approval of the Treasury impose.

- (2) The Minister may with the approval of the Treasury lend to Food from Britain any sums which it may borrow in accordance with section 6(2) above and any such sums may be lent subject to such conditions as the Ministers may with the approval of the Treasury impose.

- (3) There shall be paid out of money provided by Parliament any sums required for making payments under this section or under paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Act.

- (4) In this section “*the Minister*” means the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the Secretary of State for Scotland, the Secretary of State for Wales or the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

##### 8

In this Act—

- “*agriculture and horticulture*” includes everything included in the expression “*agriculture*” as defined by section 109(3) of the Agriculture Act 1947 or, as the case may be, section 86(3) of the Agriculture (Scotland) Act 1948 and “agricultural and horticultural” shall be construed accordingly;

- “*animal*” includes any bird or fish;

- “*the Central Council*” means the Central Council for Agricultural and Horticultural Co-operation;

- “*fish*” includes crustaceans and molluscs of any kind;

- “*fish products*” means any food made wholly or partly from fish processed otherwise than solely by filleting or gutting;

- “*food*” includes any food or drink produced or processed for human or animal consumption (including game of any kind) and any ingredient of such food or drink;

- “*the Ministers*” means the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, the Secretary of State for Scotland, the Secretary of State for Wales and the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland acting jointly;

- “*pension*” includes a superannuation allowance or gratuity payable to or in respect of any person on retirement or death;

- “*processed*” means having been subjected to any kind of process including packaging or bottling;

- “*sea fish*” means any fish (excluding crustaceans and molluscs of any kind) found in the sea except any of the salmon species, trout and eels; and

- “*transferred functions*” means functions transferred to Food from Britain by section 2(1) above.

#### Short title, repeals, commencement and extent

##### 9

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Marketing Act 1983.

- (2) ... The enactments mentioned in Schedule 3 to this Act (which include spent provisions) are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

- (3) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

- (4) This Act extends to Northern Ireland.

## SCHEDULE 1

##### 1

Food from Britain shall be a body corporate.

##### 2

- (1) Subject to section 6 of this Act, it shall be within the capacity of Food from Britain as a statutory corporation to do such things and to enter into such transactions as are incidental or conducive to the performance of any of its functions.

- (2) Without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (1) above—

- (a) where in the performance of any of its functions Food from Britain renders any services to any person it may make such charges in respect of those services as it may agree with that person; and

- (b) Food from Britain may accept contributions from other persons in respect of any expenses incurred or to be incurred in connection with any of its functions other than the transferred functions.

##### 3

The validity of any proceedings of Food from Britain shall not be affected by any vacancy among the members or by any defect in the appointment or any disqualification of any of the members.

##### 4

- (1) Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, a member of Food from Britain and the chairman and deputy chairman shall hold and vacate office as such in accordance with the terms of his appointment, and previous tenure of any such office shall not affect eligibility for re-appointment.

- (2) If the chairman or deputy chairman ceases to be a member of Food from Britain, he shall also cease to be chairman or deputy chairman.

- (3) A member may at any time, by notice in writing addressed to the Ministers, or to any of them, resign his membership, and the chairman or deputy chairman may, by the like notice, resign his office as such.

- (4) The Ministers may terminate a person’s appointment as member of Food from Britain if they are satisfied—

- (a) that he has been absent from meetings of Food from Britain without the consent of the other members for at least six consecutive months out of the nine months immediately preceding the termination of his appointment; or

- (b) that he is an undischarged bankrupt or has made an arrangement with his creditors or has become notour bankrupt or has executed a trust deed for behoof of, or has made a composition contract or arrangement with, his creditors; or

- (c) that he is incapacitated by reason of physical or mental illness; or

- (d) that he is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member of Food from Britain.

##### 5

Food from Britain may—

- (a) pay to its members such remuneration (whether by way of salary or fees) and such travelling or other allowances as it may determine;

- (b) pay such pension, or make such payments towards the provision of a pension, to or in respect of any of its members as it may determine; and

- (c) if it appears to it that there are special circumstances which make it right that a person should receive compensation on ceasing to be a member, pay him such amount by way of compensation as it may determine.

##### 6

For the purpose of assisting it in the performance of any of its functions, Food from Britain may appoint committees consisting of or including persons other than members of Food from Britain and may pay those persons such remuneration and such travelling and other allowances as it may . . . determine.

##### 7

- (1) A member of Food from Britain or any such committee shall, if he has any direct or indirect personal interest in a proposal made or proposed to be made to Food from Britain or the committee in connection with the making of any grant under the Agriculture Act 1967 or any grant or loan under this Act, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of Food from Britain or the committee as soon as possible after the relevant circumstances have come to his knowledge.

- (2) Any disclosure so made by a member shall be recorded in the minutes of Food from Britain or the committee and that member shall not take part after the disclosure in any decision of Food from Britain or the committee with respect to that proposal, but he may, nevertheless, be taken into account for the purpose of constituting a quorum of Food from Britain or the committee.

##### 8

In the case of an equality of votes at any meeting of Food from Britain the person who is chairman at that meeting shall have a second or casting vote.

##### 9

Subject to paragraphs 7 and 8 above, the council may determine their own quorum and procedure, and the quorum and procedure of any committee appointed under paragraph 6 above.

##### 10

The Ministers may designate persons to attend on their behalf any meetings of Food from Britain or any of its committees, and it shall be the duty of Food from Britain to afford any person so designated reasonable facilities for taking part in the deliberations of Food from Britain or the committee, and recording the decisions of Food from Britain or the committee; but a person so designated shall not be qualified to vote or otherwise count as a member of Food from Britain or the committee.

##### 11

- (1) Food from Britain may appoint such officers and servants as it thinks fit.

- (2) Food from Britain shall—

- (a) pay to its officers and servants such remuneration and such travelling or other allowances as it may . . . determine, and

- (b) as to any officers or servants in whose case Food from Britain may determine to do so, pay to or in respect of them such pensions, or provide and maintain for them such pension schemes, as Food from Britain may . . . determine;

and if a person ceases to be an officer or servant of Food from Britain and it appears to Food from Britain that there are special circumstances which make it right that that person should receive compensation Food from Britain may . . . pay to that person a sum of such amount as it may . . . determine.

##### 12

The application of the seal of Food from Britain shall be authenticated by the signatures of two of its members and of the chief officer of Food from Britain or some other person authorised by Food from Britain to do so in his place.

## SCHEDULE 2

##### 1

The property, rights and liabilities of the Central Council are hereby transferred to Food from Britain.

##### 2

- (1) Paragraph 1 above has effect to transfer to Food from Britain rights and obligations of the Central Council under contracts of employment with its officers and servants; and for the purpose of determining the length of service as an officer or servant of Food from Britain of any person who became such by virtue of paragraph 1 above any service by that person with the Central Council shall be treated as service with Food from Britain.

- (2) Any determination made under paragraph 9(2)(b) of Schedule 6 to the Agriculture Act 1967 in respect of any person shall be treated after the appointed day (so far as may be necessary to preserve its effect) as having been made under paragraph 11(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to this Act, and any pension scheme maintained by the Central Council immediately before the appointed day shall be deemed to be a pension scheme provided by Food from Britain under paragraph 11(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to this Act and shall continue to be maintained accordingly.

##### 3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### 4

Any enactment or other instrument passed or made before the appointed day, except section 58(8) of the Agriculture Act 1967, shall have effect as if any reference to the Central Council were a reference to Food from Britain.

##### 5

Anything done by or in relation to the Central Council and having effect immediately before the appointed day shall so far as is required for continuing its effect thereafter be treated as if it had been done by or in relation to Food from Britain, and anything then in the process of being done by or in relation to the Central Council (including in particular any legal proceedings then pending to which the Central Council is a party) may be continued by or in relation to Food from Britain.

##### 6

In section 58(9) of the Agriculture Act 1967 there shall be added at the end the words “under this Part of this Act”.

##### 7

In section 60(3) of that Act for the words “the last foregoing section” there shall be substituted the words “section 5(6) of the Agricultural Marketing Act 1983”.

##### 8

In this Schedule “*the appointed day*” means the day on which this Schedule comes into force.

## SCHEDULE 3

#### Food from Britain.

##### 3A

## Editorial notes

[^c756132]: Act not in force at Royal Assent see [s. 9(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/9/3); Act wholly in force at 23.03.1983

[^c756133]: Act (except ss. 6(3)(a), 7, Sch. 1 paras. 10, 11): power to transfer certain functions conferred (27.12.1999) by [S.I. 1999/3141](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141), [art. 2(1)(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/2/1/5), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/article/3), [Sch.](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/3141/schedule)

[^c756134]: Act: transfer of functions (21.11.2002) by [S.I. 2002/2842](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2842), [art. 7(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2842/article/7/2) (with transitional provisions in [art. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2842/article/10))

[^c756135]: [S. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/1): transfer of certain functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c756136]: Word substituted by [Agriculture Act 1986 (c. 49, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [s. 8(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/2)

[^c756137]: [1975 c. 24](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1975/24).

[^c756138]: [1975 c. 25](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1975/25).

[^c756141]: [S. 3A](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/3A) added (1.10.1992) by [S.I. 1992/2111](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1992/2111), [reg. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1992/2111/regulation/4) and repealed (26.9.1994) by virtue of [S.I. 1994/2286](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1994/2286), [reg. 5(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1994/2286/regulation/5/a)

[^c756142]: [1958 c. 47](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1958/47).

[^c756143]: [1964 c. 13 (N.I.)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/apni/1964/13).

[^c756144]: [S.I. 1982/1080 (N.I. 12)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1982/1080).

[^c756146]: [1965 c. 14](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1965/14).

[^c756147]: [1967 c. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1967/22).

[^c756148]: [1967 c. 21 (N.I.)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/apni/1967/21).

[^c756149]: [S.I. 1966/1579](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1966/1579)

[^c756150]: [S.I. 1981/1767](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1981/1767) (S. 183).

[^c756151]: S. 5: transfer of certain functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c756152]: S. 5(5) substituted by [S.I. 1991/1997](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1997), [reg. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1997/regulation/2), [Sch. para.48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1997/schedule/paragraph/48) (with [reg. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1991/1997/regulation/4))

[^c756153]: S. 5(7) amended (21.11.2002) by [S.I. 2002/2843](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843), [art. 7(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843/article/7/4) (with transitional provisions in [art. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843/article/10))

[^c756154]: S. 5(8) extended (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/1747](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1747), [art. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1747/article/1), [3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1747/article/3), [Sch. 11 Pt. II para. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/1747/schedule/11/part/II/paragraph/6) S. 5(8) extended (21.11.2002) by [S.I. 2002/2843](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843), [art. 7(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843/article/7/5) (with transitional provisions in [art. 10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/2843/article/10))

[^c756155]: [S. 6(3)(a)(b)(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/6/3/a/b/4): transfer of certain functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c756158]: [S. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/7): transfer of functions (27.3.2002) by [S.I. 2002/794](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794), [art. 3(1)(f)(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/3/1/f/2) (with [art. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2002/794/article/6))

[^c756159]: Words inserted (*prosp.*) by [Agriculture Act 1986 (c. 49, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [ss. 8(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/3)(*a*), 24(2)

[^c756160]: [S. 7(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/7/2): transfer of certain functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c756161]: Words inserted (*prosp.*) by [Agriculture Act 1986 (c. 49, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [ss. 8(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/3)(*b*), 24(2)

[^c756162]: Words repealed by [Agriculture Act 1986 (c. 49, SIF 2:1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [s. 24(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/24/5), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/schedule/4) (the repeal being in force 25.9.1986 unless consequential on sections 8 to 10 of the 1986 Act as mentioned in s. 24 of that Act which latter repeals are (*prosp.*) )

[^c756163]: [1947 c. 48](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1947/48).

[^c756164]: [1948 c. 45](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1948/45).

[^c756166]: [Sch. 1 para. 4(3)(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/schedule/1/paragraph/4/3/4): transfer of certain functions (1.7.1999) by [S.I. 1999/672](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/article/2), [Sch. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1999/672/schedule/1)

[^c756169]: [Sch. 1 para. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/schedule/1/paragraph/5) substituted (1.4.1998) by [1986 c. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [s. 8(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/4); [S.I. 1998/879](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879/article/2/a).

[^c756171]: Words in [Sch. 1 para. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/schedule/1/paragraph/6) repealed (1.4.1998) by [1986 c. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [ss. 8(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/5), [24(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/24/5), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/schedule/4); [S.I. 1998/879](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879), [art. 2(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879/article/2/b).

[^c756172]: [1967 c. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1967/22).

[^c756177]: Words repealed (1.4.1998) by [1986 c. 49](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49), [ss. 8(6)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/8/6), [24(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/section/24/5), [Sch. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/49/schedule/4); [S.I. 1998/879](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879), [art. 2(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/1998/879/article/2/c).

[^c756181]: [1967 c. 22](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1967/22).

[^key-5121a1fced1e6d57fa2516b22e2b3304]: S. 5(5A)(5B) inserted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/5)

[^key-250639cfcb9b1296129a7541832bba7c]: Words in s. 5(5) substituted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(4)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/4)

[^key-f3544f6c0019ad099d8f12e7d59be4e6]: Words in s. 5(3) inserted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(2)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/2/a)

[^key-9c16ed68da9e457645ca70ddfd49515a]: Word in s. 5(3) inserted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/2/b)

[^key-4478e55c296181edadfe9c2ef5c1d0c3]: Words in s. 5(3) inserted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(2)(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/2/c)

[^key-57d9769661ec3442ebb4b10d88923608]: Words in s. 5(4) inserted (23.5.2003) by [Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 (Audit of Public Bodies) Order 2003 (S.I. 2003/1326)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326), [arts. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/1), [13(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/1326/article/13/3)

[^key-57e31c1fa4b5dc0f8c07c09d2891eed8]: [S. 4(2)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/4/2/b) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 1

[^key-358804bd1e87e2c7847fb6188564dcfa]: Words in [s. 9(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/9/2) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 1

[^key-4d576ae02cb05054daeca050fb4a6ecf]: [S. 9(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/section/9/3) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 1

[^key-db1269d9a47b54c828c86df1e902de7b]: [Sch. 2 para. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1983/3/schedule/2/paragraph/3) repealed (22.7.2004) by [Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2004 (c. 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14), [Sch. 1 Pt. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2004/14/schedule/1/part/2) Group 1
