---
title: "House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015"
identifier: "ukpga-2015-14"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2015-03-26"
last_updated: "2015-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/14"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision empowering the House of Lords to expel or suspend members."
last_modified_tna: "2015-04-15"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2015"
number: "14"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105400035"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2015-06-26"
number_of_provisions: "4"
stats_total_paragraphs: "4"
stats_body_paragraphs: "4"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015

#### Expulsion and suspension of members of the House of Lords

##### 1

- (1) Standing Orders of the House of Lords may make provision under which the House of Lords may by resolution—

- (a) expel a member of the House of Lords, or

- (b) suspend a member of the House of Lords for the period specified in the resolution.

- (2) A person expelled by virtue of this section ceases to be a member.

- (3) A person suspended by virtue of this section remains a member during the period of suspension, but during that period the person—

- (a) is not entitled to receive writs of summons to attend the House of Lords, and

- (b) despite any writ of summons previously issued to the person, is disqualified from sitting or voting in the House of Lords or a committee of the House of Lords.

- (4) A resolution passed by virtue of subsection [(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/14/section/1/1/enacted) must state that, in the opinion of the House of Lords, the conduct giving rise to the resolution—

- (a) occurred after the coming into force of this Act, or

- (b) occurred before the coming into force of this Act and was not public knowledge before that time.

#### Entitlement to receive writs of summons to attend House of Lords

##### 2

In section 6 of the House of Lords Reform Act 2014 (interpretation), after subsection (2)(c) insert—

> (d) section 1(3) of the House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015 (suspension).

#### Effect of ceasing to be a member

##### 3

A person expelled in accordance with section 1 is to be treated as if that person had ceased to be a member in accordance with the House of Lords Reform Act 2014, for the purposes of section 4(2) to (8) of that Act.

#### Short title, commencement and extent

##### 4

- (1) This Act may be cited as the House of Lords (Expulsion and Suspension) Act 2015.

- (2) This Act shall come into force at the end of the period of three months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

- (3) This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
