---
title: "Rent (Agriculture) Amendment Act 1977"
identifier: "ukpga-1977-17"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1977-05-26"
last_updated: "1977-05-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1977/17"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to impose time limits on the duty of housing authorities to notify their decisions on applications under section 27 of the Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1977"
number: "17"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Rent (Agriculture) Amendment Act 1977

#### Time limits for notification of housing authority's decision.

##### 1

- (1) For section 28(6) of the Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976 (notification of housing authority's decision on application under section 27 of that Act) there shall be substituted the following subsections—

> (6) The authority shall notify their decision on the application in writing to the applicant, and to the occupier of the dwelling-house, within three months of their receiving the application or, if an application is made for the services of a committee under section 29 of this Act, within two months of their receiving the committee's advice.
> (6A) The notification shall state—
>   (a) if the authority are satisfied that the applicant's case is substantiated in accordance with section 27 above, what action they propose to take on the application;
>   (b) if they are not so satisfied, the reasons for their decision.

- (2) Subsection (1) above does not apply where the application under the said section 27 is received by the housing authority concerned before the coming into force of this Act.

#### Short title, etc.

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Rent (Agriculture) Amendment Act 1977.

- (2) This Act shall come into force at the expiration of a period of two weeks beginning with the date on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act does not extend to Scotland or Northern Ireland.
