---
title: "House of Commons Commission Act 2015"
identifier: "ukpga-2015-24"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2015-03-26"
last_updated: "2015-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/24"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to amend the House of Commons (Administration) Act 1978 so as to make provision about the membership of the House of Commons Commission, so as to confer a new strategic function on the Commission, and so as to make provision about the exercise of functions on behalf of the Commission or its members."
last_modified_tna: "2015-05-01"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2015"
number: "24"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105400134"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2015-03-26"
number_of_provisions: "10"
stats_total_paragraphs: "10"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "7"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# House of Commons Commission Act 2015

#### Members of the Commission etc.

##### 1

- (1) Section 1 of the House of Commons (Administration) Act 1978 (the House of Commons Commission) is amended as follows.

- (2) After subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) The Commission is to consist of seven parliamentary members, two external members and two official members.

- (3) In subsection (2) (members of the Commission)—

- (a) for “Commission shall consist of” substitute “parliamentary members are to be”, and

- (b) in paragraph (d) (members appointed by the House of Commons) for “three” substitute “four”.

- (4) After subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) An external member may not be—
>   (a) a member of the House of Commons,
>   (b) a member of the House of Lords,
>   (c) a member of staff in the House Departments, or
>   (d) a member of staff of the House of Lords.
> (2B) An external member is to be appointed by resolution of the House of Commons.
> (2C) The official members are—
>   (a) the Clerk of the House of Commons or, if that office is vacant, a member of staff in the House Departments who is appointed as an official member by the Commission, and
>   (b) the Director General of the House of Commons or, if that office is vacant or no longer exists, a member of staff in the House Departments who is appointed as an official member by the Commission.

- (5) In subsection (4) after the definition of “Leader of the Opposition” insert—

> - “member of staff of the House of Lords” means a person who is employed under a contract of employment with the Corporate Officer of the House of Lords.

- (6) The Schedule (further provision about members and procedure of the Commission) has effect.

#### Functions of the Commission

##### 2

In section 2 of the House of Commons (Administration) Act 1978 (functions of the Commission) before subsection (1) insert—

> (A1) The Commission must from time to time set strategic priorities and objectives in connection with services provided by the House Departments.

#### Commencement, extent and short title

##### 3

- (1) This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

- (2) Section 1 and the Schedule come into force, for the purposes of making appointments, on the day on which this Act is passed.

- (3) Section 1 and the Schedule come into force for other purposes, and section 2 comes into force, on the day after the making of the appointments required by section 1(2)(d) of the House of Commons (Administration) Act 1978 as amended by section 1 (or, where those appointments are made on different days, the making of the last of them).

- (4) Appointments made before this Act is fully in force, by virtue of subsection [(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/24/section/3/2/enacted), take effect on the first day on which this Act is fully in force.

- (5) This Act extends to the whole of the United Kingdom.

- (6) This Act may be cited as the House of Commons Commission Act 2015.

## SCHEDULE

##### 1

Schedule 1 to the House of Commons (Administration) Act 1978 (the Commission) is amended as follows.

##### 2

After paragraph 1 insert—

> (1A)
>   (1) A motion for a resolution appointing an external member may be made only with the agreement of the Commission.
>   (2) A person who is the subject of a motion must have been selected by the parliamentary members on merit on the basis of fair and open competition.

##### 3

- (1) Paragraph 2 (members other than ex officio members) is amended as follows.

- (2) In sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), for “member of the Commission” substitute “parliamentary member”.

- (3) In sub-paragraph (4) at the end insert “, subject to any resolution of the House of Commons”.

- (4) In sub-paragraph (5)—

- (a) for “and the” substitute “, the”, and

- (b) at the end insert “, the Clerk of the House of Commons or the Director General of the House of Commons”.

##### 4

- (1) Paragraph 3 is amended as follows.

- (2) In sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) for “member of the Commission” substitute “parliamentary member”.

- (3) In sub-paragraph (2) for “members of the Commission” substitute “parliamentary members”.

##### 5

In paragraph 5(2) (power to delegate to head of House Department or Accounting Officer)—

- (a) in paragraph (a) for “the head of any House Department” substitute “a member of staff in the House Departments”, and

- (b) omit paragraph (b).

##### 6

In paragraph 6(3) (power of Commission to appoint Commissioner to act as chairman) for “in the absence of” substitute “in place of”.
