---
title: "Canada Act 1982"
identifier: "ukpga-1982-11"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "1982-03-29"
last_updated: "1982-03-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1982/11"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to give effect to a request by the Senate and House of Commons of Canada."
last_modified_tna: "2012-09-19"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "1982"
number: "11"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
number_of_provisions: "132"
stats_total_paragraphs: "138"
stats_body_paragraphs: "4"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "134"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Canada Act 1982

#### Constitution Act, 1982 enacted.

##### 1

The Constitution Act, 1982 set out in Schedule B to this Act is hereby enacted for and shall have the force of law in Canada and shall come into force as provided in that Act.

#### Termination of power to legislate for Canada.

##### 2

No Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed after the Constitution Act, 1982 comes into force shall extend to Canada as part of its law.

#### French version.

##### 3

So far as it is not contained in Schedule B, the French version of this Act is set out in Schedule A to this Act and has the same authority in Canada as the English version thereof.

#### Short title.

##### 4

This Act may be cited as the Canada Act 1982.

## SCHEDULE (ANNEXE) A

Sa Très Excellente Majesté la Reine, considérant : qu’à la demande et avec le consentement du Canada, le Parlement du Royaume-Uni est invité à adopter une loi visant à donner effet aux dispositions énoncées ci-après et que le Sénat et la Chambre des communes du Canada réunis en Parlement ont présenté une adresse demandant à Sa Très Gracieuse Majesté de bien vouloir faire déposer devant le Parlement du Royaume-Uni un projet de loi à cette fin,

sur l’avis et du consentement des Lords spirituels et temporels et des Communes réunis en Parlement, et par l’autorité de celui-ci, édicte :

#### Adoption de la Loi constitutionelle du 1982

##### 1

La Loi constitutionnelle de 1982, énoncée à l’annexe B, est édictée pour le Canada et y a force de loi. Elle entre en vigueur conformément à ses dispositions.

#### Cessation du pouvoir de légiférer pour le Canada

##### 2

Les lois adoptées par le Parlement du Royaume-Uni après l’entrée en vigueur de la Loi constitutionnelle de 1982 ne font pas partie du droit du Canada.

#### Version française

##### 3

La partie de la version française de la présente loi qui figure à l’annexe A a force de loi au Canada au même titre que la version anglaise correspondante.

#### Titre abrégé

##### 4

Titre abrégé de la présente loi : Loi de 1982 sur le Canada.

## SCHEDULE B

## PART I — Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms

Whereas Canada is founded upon principles that recognize the supremacy of God and the rule of law :

### Guarantee of Rights and Freedoms

#### Rights and freedoms in Canada

##### 1

The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms guarantees the rights and freedoms set out in it subject only to such reasonable limits prescribed by law as can be demonstrably justified in a free and democratic society.

### Fundamental Freedoms

#### Fundamental freedoms

##### 2

Everyone has the following fundamental freedoms :

- (a) freedom of conscience and religion ;

- (b) freedom of thought, belief, opinion and expression, including freedom of the press and other media of communication ;

- (c) freedom of peaceful assembly ; and

- (d) freedom of association.

### Democratic Rights

#### Democratic rights of citizens

##### 3

Every citizen of Canada has the right to vote in an election of members of the House of Commons or of a legislative assembly and to be qualified for membership therein.

#### Maximum duration of legislative bodies

##### 4

- (1) No House of Commons and no legislative assembly shall continue for longer than five years from the date fixed for the return of the writs at a general election of its members.

*Continuation in special circumstances* 2 In time of real or apprehended war, invasion or insurrection, a House of Commons may be continued by Parliament and a legislative assembly may be continued by the legislature beyond five years if such continuation is not opposed by the votes of more than one-third of the members of the House of Commons or the legislative assembly, as the case may be.

#### Annual sitting of legislative bodies

##### 5

There shall be a sitting of Parliament and of each legislature at least once every twelve months.

### Mobility Rights

#### Mobility of citizens

##### 6

- (1) Every citizen of Canada has the right to enter, remain in and leave Canada.

*Rights to move and gain livelihood* 2 Every citizen of Canada and every person who has the status of a permanent resident of Canada has the right a to move to and take up residence in any province ; and b to pursue the gaining of a livelihood in any province.

*Limitation* 3 The rights specified in subsection (2) are subject to a any laws or practices of general application in force in a province other than those that discriminate among persons primarily on the basis of province of present or previous residence ; and b any laws providing for reasonable residency requirements as a qualification for the receipt of publicly provided social services.

*Affirmative action programs* 4 Subsections (2) and (3) do not preclude any law, program or activity that has as its object the amelioration in a province of conditions of individuals in that province who are socially or economically disadvantaged if the rate of employment in that province is below the rate of employment in Canada.

### Legal Rights

#### Life, liberty and security of person

##### 7

Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of the person and the right not to be deprived thereof except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice.

#### Search or seizure

##### 8

Everyone has the right to be secure against unreasonable search or seizure.

#### Detention or imprisonment

##### 9

Everyone has the right not to be arbitrarily detained or imprisoned.

#### Arrest or detention

##### 10

Everyone has the right on arrest or detention

- (a) to be informed promptly of the reasons therefor ;

- (b) to retain and instruct counsel without delay and to be informed of that right ; and

- (c) to have the validity of the detention determined by way of *habeas corpus* and to be released if the detention is not lawful.

#### Proceedings in criminal and penal matters

##### 11

Any person charged with an offence has the right

- (a) to be informed without unreasonable delay of the specific offence ;

- (b) to be tried within a reasonable time ;

- (c) not to be compelled to be a witness in proceedings against that person in respect of the offence ;

- (d) to be presumed innocent until proven guilty according to law in a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal ;

- (e) not to be denied reasonable bail without just cause ;

- (f) except in the case of an offence under military law tried before a military tribunal, to the benefit of trial by jury where the maximum punishment for the offence is imprisonment for five years or a more severe punishment ;

- (g) not to be found guilty on account of any act or omission unless, at the time of the act or omission, it constituted an offence under Canadian or international law or was criminal according to the general principles of law recognized by the community of nations ;

- (h) if finally acquitted of the offence, not to be tried for it again and, if finally found guilty and punished for the offence, not to be tried or punished for it again ; and

- (i) if found guilty of the offence and if the punishment for the offence has been varied between the time of commission and the time of sentencing, to the benefit of the lesser punishment.

#### Treatment or punishment

##### 12

Everyone has the right not to be subjected to any cruel and unusual treatment or punishment.

#### Self-crimination

##### 13

A witness who testifies in any proceedings has the right not to have any incriminating evidence so given used to incriminate that witness in any other proceedings, except in a prosecution for perjury or for the giving of contradictory evidence.

#### Interpreter

##### 14

A party or witness in any proceedings who does not understand or speak the language in which the proceedings are conducted or who is deaf has the right to the assistance of an interpreter.

### Equality Rights

#### Equality before and under law and equal protection and benefit of law

##### 15

- (1) Every individual is equal before and under the law and has the right to the equal protection and equal benefit of the law without discrimination and, in particular, without discrimination based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability.

*Affirmative action programs* 2 Subsection (1) does not preclude any law, program or activity that has as its object the amelioration of conditions of disadvantaged individuals or groups including those that are disadvantaged because of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability.

### Official Languages of Canada

#### Official languages of Canada

##### 16

- (1) English and French are the official languages of Canada and have equality of status and equal rights and privileges as to their use in all institutions of the Parliament and government of Canada.

*Official languages of New Brunswick* 2 English and French are the official languages of New Brunswick and have equality of status and equal rights and privileges as to their use in all institutions of the legislature and government of New Brunswick.

*Advancement of status and use* 3 Nothing in this Charter limits the authority of Parliament or a legislature to advance the equality of status or use of English and French.

#### Proceedings of Parliament

##### 17

- (1) Everyone has the right to use English or French in any debates and other proceedings of Parliament.

*Proceedings of New Brunswick legislature* 2 Everyone has the right to use English or French in any debates and other proceedings of the legislature of New Brunswick.

#### Parliamentary statutes and records

##### 18

- (1) The statutes, records and journals of Parliament shall be printed and published in English and French and both language versions are equally authoritative.

New Brunswick statutes and records 2 The statutes, records and journals of the legislature of New Brunswick shall be printed and published in English and French and both language versions are equally authoritative.

#### Proceedings in courts established by Parliament

##### 19

- (1) Either English or French may be used by any person in, or in any pleading in or process issuing from, any court established by Parliament.

Proceedings in New Brunswick courts 2 Either English or French may be used by any person in, or in any pleading in or process issuing from, any court of New Brunswick.

#### Communications by public with federal institutions

##### 20

- (1) Any member of the public in Canada has the right to communicate with, and to receive available services from, any head or central office of an institution of the Parliament or government of Canada in English or French, and has the same right with respect to any other office of any such institution where

- (a) there is a significant demand for communications with and services from that office in such language ; or

- (b) due to the nature of the office, it is reasonable that communications with and services from that office be available in both English and French.

Communications by public with New Brunswick institutions 2 Any member of the public in New Brunswick has the right to communicate with, and to receive available services from, any office of an institution of the legislature or government of New Brunswick in English or French.

#### Continuation of existing constitutional provisions

##### 21

Nothing in sections 16 to 20 abrogates or derogates from any right, privilege or obligation with respect to the English and French languages, or either of them, that exists or is continued by virtue of any other provision of the Constitution of Canada.

#### Rights and privileges preserved

##### 22

Nothing in sections 16 to 20 abrogates or derogates from any legal or customary right or privilege acquired or enjoyed either before or after the coming into force of this Charter with respect to any language that is not English or French.

### Minority Language Educational Rights

#### Language of instruction

##### 23

- (1) Citizens of Canada

- (a) whose first language learned and still understood is that of the English or French linguistic minority population of the province in which they reside, or

- (b) who have received their primary school instruction in Canada in English or French and reside in a province where the language in which they received that instruction is the language of the English or French linguistic minority population of the province,

have the right to have their children receive primary and secondary school instruction in that language in that province.

*Continuity of language instruction* 2 Citizens of Canada of whom any child has received or is receiving primary or secondary school instruction in English or French in Canada, have the right to have all their children receive primary and secondary school instruction in the same language.

*Application where numbers warrant* 3 The right of citizens of Canada under subsections (1) and (2) to have their children receive primary and secondary school instruction in the language of the English or French linguistic minority population of a province a applies wherever in the province the number of children of citizens who have such a right is sufficient to warrant the provision to them out of public funds of minority language instruction ; and b includes, where the number of those children so warrants, the right to have them receive that instruction in minority language educational facilities provided out of public funds.

### Enforcement

#### Enforcement of guaranteed rights and freedoms

##### 24

- (1) Anyone whose rights or freedoms, as guaranteed by this Charter, have been infringed or denied may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to obtain such remedy as the court considers appropriate and just in the circumstances.

*Exclusion of evidence bringing administration of justice into disrepute* 2 Where, in proceedings under subsection (1), a court concludes that evidence was obtained in a manner that infringed or denied any rights or freedoms guaranteed by this Charter, the evidence shall be excluded if it is established that, having regard to all the circumstances, the admission of it in the proceedings would bring the administration of justice into disrepute.

### General

#### Aboriginal rights and freedoms not affected by Charter

##### 25

The guarantee in this Charter of certain rights and freedoms shall not be construed so as to abrogate or derogate from any aboriginal, treaty or other rights or freedoms that pertain to the aboriginal peoples of Canada including

- (a) any rights or freedoms that have been recognized by the Royal Proclamation of October 7, 1763 ; and

- (b) any rights or freedoms that may be acquired by the aboriginal peoples of Canada by way of land claims settlement.

#### Other rights and freedoms not affected by Charter

##### 26

The guarantee in this Charter of certain rights and freedoms shall not be construed as denying the existence of any other rights or freedoms that exist in Canada.

#### Multicultural heritage

##### 27

This Charter shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the preservation and enhancement of the multicultural heritage of Canadians.

#### Rights guaranteed equally to both sexes

##### 28

Notwithstanding anything in this Charter, the rights and freedoms referred to in it are guaranteed equally to male and female persons.

#### Rights respecting certain schools preserved

##### 29

Nothing in this Charter abrogates or derogates from any rights or privileges guaranteed by or under the Constitution of Canada in respect of denominational, separate or dissentient schools.

#### Application to territories and territorial authorities

##### 30

A reference in this Charter to a province or to the legislative assembly or legislature of a province shall be deemed to include a reference to the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories, or to the appropriate legislative authority thereof, as the case may be.

#### Legislative powers not extended

##### 31

Nothing in this Charter extends the legislative powers of any body or authority.

### Application of Charter

#### Application of Charter

##### 32

- (1) This Charter applies

- (a) to the Parliament and government of Canada in respect of all matters within the authority of Parliament including all matters relating to the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories ; and

- (b) to the legislature and government of each province in respect of all matters within the authority of the legislature of each province.

*Exception* 2 Notwithstanding subsection (1), section 15 shall not have effect until three years after this section comes into force.

#### Exception where express declaration

##### 33

- (1) Parliament or the legislature of a province may expressly declare in an Act of Parliament or of the legislature, as the case may be, that the Act or a provision thereof shall operate notwithstanding a provision included in section 2 or sections 7 to 15 of this Charter.

*Operation of exception* 2 An Act or a provision of an Act in respect of which a declaration made under this section is in effect shall have such operation as it would have but for the provision of this Charter referred to in the declaration.

*Five year limitation* 3 A declaration made under subsection (1) shall cease to have effect five years after it comes into force or on such earlier date as may be specified in the declaration.

*Re-enactment* 4 Parliament or the legislature of a province may re-enact a declaration made under subsection (1).

*Five year limitation* 5 Subsection (3) applies in respect of a re-enactment made under subsection (4).

### Citation

#### Citation

##### 34

This Part may be cited as the *Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms*.

## PART II — Rights of the Aboriginal Peoples of Canada

#### Recognition of existing aboriginal and treaty rights

##### 35

- (1) The existing aboriginal and treaty rights of the aboriginal peoples of Canada are hereby recognized and affirmed.

*Definition of "aboriginal peoples of Canada"* 2 In this Act, "aboriginal peoples of Canada" includes the Indian, Inuit and Métis peoples of Canada.

## PART III — Equalization and Regional Disparities

#### Commitment to promote equal opportunities

##### 36

- (1) Without altering the legislative authority of Parliament or of the provincial legislatures, or the rights of any of them with respect to the exercise of their legislative authority, Parliament and the legislatures, together with the government of Canada and the provincial governments, are committed to

- (a) promoting equal opportunities for the well-being of Canadians ;

- (b) furthering economic development to reduce disparity in opportunities ; and

- (c) providing essential public services of reasonable quality to all Canadians.

*Commitment respecting public services* 2 Parliament and the government of Canada are committed to the principle of making equalization payments to ensure that provincial governments have sufficient revenues to provide reasonably comparable levels of public services at reasonably comparable levels of taxation.

## PART IV — Constitutional Conference

#### Constitutional conference

##### 37

- (1) A constitutional conference composed of the Prime Minister of Canada and the first ministers of the provinces shall be convened by the Prime Minister of Canada within one year after this Part comes into force.

*Participation of aboriginal peoples* 2 The conference convened under subsection (1) shall have included in its agenda an item respecting constitutional matters that directly affect the aboriginal peoples of Canada, including the identification and definition of the rights of those peoples to be included in the Constitution of Canada, and the Prime Minister of Canada shall invite representatives of those peoples to participate in the discussions on that item.

*Participation of territories* 3 The Prime Minister of Canada shall invite elected representatives of the governments of the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories to participate in the discussions on any item on the agenda of the conference convened under subsection (1) that, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, directly affects the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories.

## PART V — Procedure for amending Constitution of Canada

#### General procedure for amending Constitution of Canada

##### 38

- (1) An amendment to the Constitution of Canada may be made by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada where so authorized by

- (a) resolutions of the Senate and House of Commons ; and

- (b) resolutions of the legislative assemblies of at least two-thirds of the provinces that have, in the aggregate, according to the then latest general census, at least fifty per cent. of the population of all the provinces.

*Majority of members* 2 An amendment made under subsection (1) that derogates from the legislative powers, the proprietary rights or any other rights or privileges of the legislature or government of a province shall require a resolution supported by a majority of the members of each of the Senate, the House of Commons and the legislative assemblies required under subsection (1).

*Expression of dissent* 3 An amendment referred to in subsection (2) shall not have effect in a province the legislative assembly of which has expressed its dissent thereto by resolution supported by a majority of its members prior to the issue of the proclamation to which the amendment relates unless that legislative assembly, subsequently, by resolution supported by a majority of its members, revokes its dissent and authorizes the amendment.

*Revocation of proclamation* 4 A resolution of dissent made for the purposes of subsection (3) may be revoked at any time before or after the issue of the proclamation to which it relates.

#### Restriction on proclamation

##### 39

- (1) A proclamation shall not be issued under subsection 38(1) before the expiration of one year from the adoption of the resolution initiating the amendment procedure thereunder, unless the legislative assembly of each province has previously adopted a resolution of assent or dissent.

*Idem* 2 A proclamation shall not be issued under subsection 38(1) after the expiration of three years from the adoption of the resolution initiating the amendment procedure thereunder.

#### Compensation

##### 40

Where an amendment is made under subsection 38(1) that transfers provincial legislative powers relating to education or other cultural matters from provincial legislatures to Parliament, Canada shall provide reasonable compensation to any province to which the amendment does not apply.

#### Amendment by unanimous consent

##### 41

An amendment to the Constitution of Canada in relation to the following matters may be made by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada only where authorized by resolutions of the Senate and House of Commons and of the legislative assembly of each province:

- (a) the office of the Queen, the Governor General and the Lieutenant Governor of a province ;

- (b) the right of a province to a number of members in the House of Commons not less than the number of Senators by which the province is entitled to be represented at the time this Part comes into force ;

- (c) subject to section 43, the use of the English or the French language ;

- (d) the composition of the Supreme Court of Canada ; and

- (e) an amendment to this Part.

#### Amendment by general procedure

##### 42

- (1) An amendment to the Constitution of Canada in relation to the following matters may be made only in accordance with subsection 38(1):

- (a) the principle of proportionate representation of the provinces in the House of Commons prescribed by the Constitution of Canada ;

- (b) the powers of the Senate and the method of selecting Senators ;

- (c) the number of members by which a province is entitled to be represented in the Senate and the residence qualifications of Senators ;

- (d) subject to paragraph 41(d), the Supreme Court of Canada ;

- (e) the extension of existing provinces into the territories ; and

- (f) notwithstanding any other law or practice, the establishment of new provinces.

*Exception* 2 Subsections 38(2) to (4) do not apply in respect of amendments in relation to matters referred to in subsection (1).

#### Amendment of provisions relating to some but not all provinces

##### 43

An amendment to the Constitution of Canada in relation to any provision that applies to one or more, but not all, provinces, including

- (a) any alteration to boundaries between provinces, and

- (b) any amendment to any provision that relates to the use of the English or the French language within a province,

may be made by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada only where so authorized by resolution of the Senate and House of Commons and of the legislative assembly of each province to which the amendment applies.

#### Amendments by Parliament

##### 44

Subject to sections 41 and 42, Parliament may exclusively make laws amending the Constitution of Canada in relation to the executive government of Canada or the Senate and House of Commons.

#### Amendments by provincial legislatures

##### 45

Subject to section 41, the legislature of each province may exclusively make laws amending the constitution of the province.

#### Initiation of amendment procedures

##### 46

- (1) The procedures for amendment under sections 38, 41, 42 and 43 may be initiated either by the Senate or the House of Commons or by the legislative assembly of a province.

*Revocation of authorization* 2 A resolution of assent made for the purposes of this Part may be revoked at any time before the issue of a proclamation authorized by it.

#### Amendments without Senate resolution

##### 47

- (1) An amendment to the Constitution of Canada made by proclamation under section 38, 41, 42 or 43 may be made without a resolution of the Senate authorizing the issue of the proclamation if, within one hundred and eighty days after the adoption by the House of Commons of a resolution authorizing its issue, the Senate has not adopted such a resolution and if, at any time after the expiration of that period, the House of Commons again adopts the resolution.

*Computation of period* 2 Any period when Parliament is prorogued or dissolved shall not be counted in computing the one hundred and eighty day period referred to in subsection (1).

#### Advice to issue proclamation

##### 48

The Queen’s Privy Council for Canada shall advise the Governor General to issue a proclamation under this Part forthwith on the adoption of the resolutions required for an amendment made by proclamation under this Part.

#### Constitutional conference

##### 49

A constitutional conference composed of the Prime Minister of Canada and the first ministers of the provinces shall be convened by the Prime Minister of Canada within fifteen years after this Part comes into force to review the provisions of this Part.

## PART VI — Amendment to the Constitution Act, 1867

#### Amendment to Constitution Act 1867

##### 50

The *Constitution Act, 1867* (formerly named the *British North America Act, 1867*) is amended by adding thereto, immediately after section 92 thereof, the following heading and section :

> (92A)
>   (1) In each province, the legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to
>     (a) exploration for non-renewable natural resources in the province ;
>     (b) development, conservation and management of non-renewable natural resources and forestry resources in the province, including laws in relation to the rate of primary production therefrom ; and
>     (c) development, conservation and management of sites and facilities in the province for the generation and production of electrical energy.
>   (2) In each province, the legislature may make laws in relation to the export from the province to another part of Canada of the primary production from non-renewable natural resources and forestry resources in the province and the production from facilities in the province for the generation of electrical energy, but such laws may not authorize or provide for discrimination in prices or in supplies exported to another part of Canada.
>   (3) Nothing in subsection (2) derogates from the authority of Parliament to enact laws in relation to the matters referred to in that subsection and, where such a law of Parliament and a law of a province conflict, the law of Parliament prevails to the extent of the conflict.
>   (4) In each province, the legislature may make laws in relation to the raising of money by any mode or system of taxation in respect of
>     (a) non-renewable natural resources and forestry resources in the province and the primary production therefrom, and
>     (b) sites and facilities in the province for the generation of electrical energy and the production therefrom,
>   whether or not such production is exported in whole or in part from the province, but such laws may not authorize or provide for taxation that differentiates between production exported to another part of Canada and production not exported from the province.
>   (5) The expression " primary production " has the meaning assigned by the Sixth Schedule.
>   (6) Nothing in subsections (1) to (5) derogates from any powers or rights that a legislature or government of a province had immediately before the coming into force of this section.

#### Idem

##### 51

The said Act is further amended by adding thereto the following Schedule :

> **THE SIXTH SCHEDULE**
>   (1) For the purposes of section 92A of this Act,
>     (a) production from a non-renewable natural resource is primary production therefrom if
>       (i) it is in the form in which it exists upon its recovery or severance from its natural state, or
>       (ii) it is a product resulting from processing or refining the resource, and is not a manufactured product or a product resulting from refining crude oil, refining upgraded heavy crude oil, refining gases or liquids derived from coal or refining a synthetic equivalent of crude oil ; and
>     (b) production from a forestry resource is primary production therefrom if it consists of sawlogs, poles, lumber, wood chips, sawdust or any other primary wood product, or wood pulp, and is not a product manufactured from wood.

## PART VII — General

#### Primacy of Constitution of Canada

##### 52

- (1) The Constitution of Canada is the supreme law of Canada, and any law that is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution is, to the extent of the inconsistency, of no force or effect.

Constitution of Canada 2 The Constitution of Canada includes a the *Canada Act 1982*, including this Act ; b the Acts and orders referred to in the schedule ; and c any amendment to any Act or order referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).

Amendments to the Constitution of Canada 3 Amendments to the Constitution of Canada shall be made only in accordance with the authority contained in the Constitution of Canada.

#### Repeals and new names

##### 53

- (1) The enactments referred to in Column I of the schedule are hereby repealed or amended to the extent indicated in Column II thereof and, unless repealed, shall continue as law in Canada under the names set out in Column III thereof.

Consequential amendments 2 Every enactment, except the Canada Act 1982, that refers to an enactment referred to in the schedule by the name in Column I thereof is hereby amended by substituting for that name the corresponding name in Column III thereof, and any British North America Act not referred to in the schedule may be cited as the Constitution Act followed by the year and number, if any, of its enactment.

#### Repeal and consequential amendments

##### 54

Part IV is repealed on the day that is one year after this Part comes into force and this section may be repealed and this Act renumbered, consequentially upon the repeal of Part IV and this section, by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

#### French version of Constitution of Canada

##### 55

A French version of the portions of the Constitution of Canada referred to in the schedule shall be prepared by the Minister of Justice of Canada as expeditiously as possible and, when any portion thereof sufficient to warrant action being taken has been so prepared, it shall be put forward for enactment by proclamation issued by the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada pursuant to the procedure then applicable to an amendment of the same provisions of the Constitution of Canada.

#### English and French versions of certain constitutional texts

##### 56

Where any portion of the Constitution of Canada has been or is enacted in English and French or where a French version of any portion of the Constitution is enacted pursuant to section 55, the English and French versions of that portion of the Constitution are equally authoritative.

#### English and French versions of this Act

##### 57

The English and French versions of this Act are equally authoritative.

#### Commencement

##### 58

Subject to section 59, this Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by proclamation issued by the Queen or the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

#### Commencement of paragraph 23(1)(a) in respect of Quebec

##### 59

- (1) Paragraph 23(1)(a) shall come into force in respect of Quebec on a day to be fixed by proclamation issued by the Queen or the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

Authorization of Quebec 2 A proclamation under subsection (1) shall be issued only where authorized by the legislative assembly or government of Quebec.

Repeal of this section 3 This section may be repealed on the day paragraph 23(1)(a) comes into force in respect of Quebec and this Act amended and renumbered, consequentially upon the repeal of this section, by proclamation issued by the Queen or the Governor General under the Great Seal of Canada.

#### Short title and citations

##### 60

This Act may be cited as the *Constitution Act, 1982*, and the Constitution Acts 1867 to 1975 (No. 2) and this Act may be cited together as the *Constitution Acts, 1867 to 1982*.

## SCHEDULE

## ANNEXE B

## PARTIE I — CHARTE CANADIENNE DES DROITS ET LIBERTÉS

Attendu que le Canada est fondé sur des principes qui reconnaissent la suprématie de Dieu et la primauté du droit :

### Garantie des droits et libertés

#### Droits et libertés au Canada

##### 1

La Charte canadienne des droits et libertés garantit les droits et libertés qui y sont énoncés. Ils ne peuvent être restreints que par une règle de droit, dans des limites qui soient raisonnables et dont la justification puisse se démontrer dans le cadre d’une société libre et démocratique.

### Libertés fondamentales

#### Libertés fondamentales

##### 2

Chacun a les libertés fondamentales suivantes :

- (a) liberté de conscience et de religion ;

- (b) liberté de pensée, de croyance, d’opinion et d’expression, y compris la liberté de la presse et des autres moyens de communication ;

- (c) liberté de réunion pacifique ;

- (d) liberté d’association.

### Droits démocratiques

#### Droits démocratiques des citoyens

##### 3

Tout citoyen canadien a le droit de vote et est éligible aux élections législatives fédérales ou provinciales.

#### Mandat maximal des assemblées

##### 4

- (1) Le mandat maximal de la Chambre des communes et des assemblées législatives est de cinq ans à compter de la date fixée pour le retour des brefs relatifs aux élections générales correspondantes.

Prolongations spéciales 2 Le mandat de la Chambre des communes ou celui d’une assemblée législative peut être prolongé respectivement par le Parlement ou par la législature en question au-delà de cinq ans en cas de guerre, d’invasion ou d’insurrection, réelles ou appréhendées, pourvu que cette prolongation ne fasse pas l’objet d’une opposition exprimée par les voix de plus du tiers des députés de la Chambre des communes ou de l’assemblée législative.

#### Séance annuelle

##### 5

Le Parlement et les législatures tiennent une séance au moins une fois tous les douze mois.

### Liberté de circulation et d’établissement

#### Liberté de circulation

##### 6

- (1) Tout citoyen canadien a le droit de demeurer au Canada, d’y entrer ou d’en sortir.

Liberté d’etablissement 2 Tout citoyen canadien et toute personne ayant le statut de résident permanent au Canada ont le droit : a de se déplacer dans tout le pays et d’établir leur résidence dans toute province ; b de gagner leur vie dans toute province.

Restriction 3 Les droits mentionnés au paragraphe (2) sont surbordonnés : a aux lois et usages d’application générale en vigueur dans une province donnée, s’ils n’établissent entre les personnes aucune distinction fondée principalement sur la province de résidence antérieure ou actuelle ; b aux lois prévoyant de justes conditions de résidence en vue de l’obtention des services sociaux publics.

Programmes de promotion sociale 4 Les paragraphes (2) et (3) n’ont pas pour objet d’interdire les lois, programmes ou activités destinés à améliorer, dans une province, la situation d’individus défavorisés socialement ou économiquement, si le taux d’emploi dans la province est inférieur à la moyenne nationale.

### Garanties juridiques

#### Vie, liberté et sécurité

##### 7

Chacun a droit à la vie, à la liberté et à la sécurité de sa personne ; il ne peut être porté atteinte à ce droit qu’en conformité avec les principes de justice fondamentale.

#### Fouilles, perquisitions ou saisies

##### 8

Chacun a droit à la protection contre les fouilles, les perquisitions ou les saisies abusives.

#### Détention ou emprisonnenement

##### 9

Chacun a droit à la protection contre la détention ou l’emprisonnement arbitraires.

#### Arrestation ou détention

##### 10

Chacun a le droit, en cas d’arrestation ou de détention :

- (a) d’être informé dans les plus brefs délais des motifs de son arrestation ou de sa détention ;

- (b) d’avoir recours sans délai à l’assistance d’un avocat et d’être informé de ce droit ;

- (c) de faire contrôler, par *habeas corpus*, la légalité de sa détention et d’obtenir, le cas échéant, sa libération.

#### Affaires criminelles et pénales

##### 11

Tout inculpé a le droit :

- (a) d’être informé sans délai anormal de l’infraction précise qu’on lui reproche ;

- (b) d’être jugé dans un délai raisonnable ;

- (c) de ne pas être contraint de témoigner contre lui-même dans toute poursuite intentée contre lui pour l’infraction qu’on lui reproche ;

- (d) d’être présumé innocent tant qu’il n’est pas déclaré coupable, conformément à la loi, par un tribunal indépendant et impartial à l’issue d’un procès public et équitable ;

- (e) de ne pas être privé sans juste cause d’une mise en liberté assorthe d’un cautionnement raisonnable ;

- (f) sauf s’il s’agit d’une infraction relevant de la justice militaire, de bénéficier d’un procès avec jury lorsque la peine maximale prévue pour l’infraction dont il est accusé est un emprisonnement de cinq ans ou une peine plus grave :

- (g) de ne pas être déclaré coupable en raison d’une action ou d’une omission qui, au moment où elle est survenue, ne constituait pas une infraction d’après le droit interne du Canada ou le droit international et n’avait pas de caractère criminel d’après les principes généraux de droit reconnus par l’ensemble des nations ;

- (h) d’une part de ne pas être jugé de nouveau pour une infraction dont il a été définitivement acquitté, d’autre part de ne pas être jugé ni puni de nouveau pour une infraction dont il a été définitivement déclaré coupable et puni ;

- (i) de bénéficier de la peine la moins sévère, lorsque la peine qui sanctionne l’infraction dont il est déclaré coupable est modifiée entre le moment de la perpétration de l’infraction et celui de la sentence.

#### Cruauté

##### 12

Chacun a droit à la protection contre tous traitements ou peines cruels et inusités.

#### Témoignage incriminant

##### 13

Chacun a droit à ce qu’aucun témoignage incriminant qu’il donne ne soit utilisé pour l’incriminer dans d’autres procédures, sauf lors de poursuites pour parjure ou pour témoignages contradictoires.

#### Interprète

##### 14

La partie ou le témoin qui ne peuvent suivre les procédures, soit parce qu’ils ne comprennent pas ou ne parlent pas la langue employée, soit parce qu’ils sont atteints de surdité, ont droit à l’assistance d’un interprète.

### Droits à l’égalité

#### Égalité devant la loi, égalité de bénéfice et protection égale de la loi

##### 15

- (1) La loi ne fait acception de personne et s’applique également à tous, et tous ont droit à la même protection et au même bénéfice de la loi, indépendamment de toute discrimination, notamment des discriminations fondées sur la race, l’origine nationale ou ethnique, la couleur, la religion, le sexe, l’âge ou les déficiences mentales ou physiques.

Programmes de promotion sociale 2 Le paragraphe (1) n’a pas pour effet d’interdire les lois, programmes ou activités destinés à améliorer la situation d’individus ou de groupes défavorisés, notamment du fait de leur race, de leur origine nationale ou ethnique, de leur couleur, de leur religion, de leur sexe, de leur âge ou de leurs déficiences mentales ou physiques.

### Langues officielles du Canada

#### Langues officielles du Canada

##### 16

- (1) Le français et l’anglais sont les langues officielles du Canada ; ils ont un statut et des droits et privilèges égaux quant à leur usage dans les institutions du Parlement et du gouvernement du Canada.

Langues officielles du Nouveau-Brunswick 2 Le français et l’anglais sont les langues officielles du Nouveau-Brunswick ; ils ont un statut et des droits et privilèges égaux quant à leur usage dans les institutions de la Législature et du gouvernement du Nouveau-Brunswick.

Progression vers l’égalité 3 La présente charte ne limite pas le pouvoir du Parlement et des législatures de favoriser la progression vers l’égalité de statut ou d’usage du français et de l’anglais.

#### Travaux du Parlement

##### 17

- (1) Chacun a le droit d’employer le français ou l’anglais dans les débats et travaux du Parlement.

Travaux de la Législature du Nouveau-Brunswick 2 Chacun a le droit d’employer le français ou l’anglais dans les débats et travaux de la Législature du Nouveau-Brunswick.

#### Documents parlementaires

##### 18

- (1) Les lois, les archives, les comptes rendus et les procès-verbaux du Parlement sont imprimés et publiés en français et en anglais, les deux versions des lois ayant également force de loi et celles des autres documents ayant même valeur.

Documents de la Législature du Nouveau-Brunswick 2 Les lois, les archives, les comptes rendus et les procès-verbaux de la Législature du Nouveau-Brunswick sont imprimés et publiés en français et en anglais, les deux versions des lois ayant également force de loi et celles des autres documents ayant même valeur.

#### Procédures devant les tribunaux établis par le Parlement

##### 19

- (1) Chacun a le droit d’employer le français ou l’anglais dans toutes les affaires dont sont saisis les tribunaux établis par le Parlement et dans tous les actes de procédure qui en découlent.

Procédures devant les tribunaux du Nouveau-Brunswick 2 Chacun a le droit d’employer le français ou l’anglais dans toutes les affaires dont sont saisis les tribunaux du Nouveau-Brunswick et dans tous les actes de procédure qui en découlent.

#### Communications entre les administrés et les institutions fédérales

##### 20

- (1) Le public a, au Canada, droit à l’emploi du français ou de l’anglais pour communiquer avec le siège ou l’administration centrale des institutions du Parlement ou du gouvernement du Canada ou pour en recevoir les services ; il a le même droit à l’égard de tout autre bureau de ces institutions là où, selon le cas :

- (a) l’emploi du français ou de l’anglais fait l’objet d’une de mande importante ;

- (b) l’emploi du français et de l’anglais se justifie par la vocation du bureau.

Communications entre les administrés et les institutions du Nouveau-Brunswick 2 Le public a, au Nouveau-Brunswick, droit à l’emploi du français ou de l’anglais pour communiquer avec tout bureau des institutions de la législature ou du gouvernement ou pour en recevoir les services.

#### Maintien en vigueur de certaines dispositions

##### 21

Les articles 16 à 20 n’ont pas pour effet, en ce qui a trait à la langue française ou anglaise ou à ces deux langues, de porter atteinte aux droits, privilèges ou obligations qui existent ou sont maintenus aux termes d’une autre disposition de la Constitution du Canada.

#### Driots préservés

##### 22

Les articles 16 à 20 n’ont pas pour effet de porter atteinte aux droits et privilèges, antérieurs ou postérieurs à l’entrée en vigueur de la présente charte et découlant de la loi ou de la coutume, des langues autres que le français ou l’anglais.

### Droits à l’instruction dans la langue de la minorité

#### Langue d’instruction

##### 23

- (1) Les citoyens canadiens:

- (a) dont la première langue apprise et encore comprise est celle de la minorité francophone ou anglophone de la province où ils résident,

- (b) qui ont reçu leur instruction, au niveau primaire, en français ou en anglais au Canada et qui résident dans une province où la langue dans laquelle ils ont reçu cette instruction est celle de la minorité francophone ou anglophone de la province,

ont, dans l’un ou l’autre cas, le droit d’y faire instruire leurs enfants, aux niveaux primaire et secondaire, dans cette langue.

Continuité d’emploi de la langue d’instruction 2 Les citoyens canadiens dont un enfant a reçu ou reçoit son instruction, au niveau primaire ou secondaire, en français ou en anglais au Canada ont le droit de faire instruire tous leurs enfants, aux niveaux primaire et secondaire, dans la langue de cette instruction.

Justification par le nombre 3 Le droit reconnu aux citoyens canadiens par les paragraphes (1) et (2) de faire instruire leurs enfants, aux niveaux primaire et secondaire, dans la langue de la minorité francophone ou anglophone d’une province: a s’exerce partout dans la province où le nombre des enfants des citoyens qui ont ce droit est suffisant pour justifier à leur endroit la prestation, sur les fonds publics, de l’instruction dans la langue de la minorité ; b comprend, lorsque le nombre de ces enfants le justifie, le droit de les faire instruire dans des établissements d’enseignement de la minorité linguistique financés sur les fonds publics.

### Recours

#### Recours en cas d’atteinte aux droits et libertés

##### 24

- (1) Toute personne, victime de violation ou de négation des droits ou libertés qui lui sont garantis par la présente charte, peut s’adresser à un tribunal compétent pour obtenir la réparation que le tribunal estime convenable et juste eu égard aux circonstances.

Irrecevabilitié d’éléments de preuve qui risqueraient de déconsiderer l’administration de la justice 2 Lorsque, dans une instance visée au paragraphe (1), le tribunal a conclu que des éléments de preuve ont été obtenus dans des conditions qui portent atteinte aux droits ou libertés garantis par la présente charte, ces éléments de preuve sont écartés s’il est établi, eu égard aux circonstances, que leur utilisation est susceptible de déconsidérer l’administration de la justice.

### Dispositions générales

#### Maintien des droits et libertés des autochtones

##### 25

Le fait que la présente charte garantit certains droits et libertés ne porte pas atteinte aux droits ou libertés—ancestraux, issus de traités ou autres—des peuples autochtones du Canada, notamment:

- (a) aux droits ou libertés reconnus par la Proclamation royale du 7 octobre 1763 ;

- (b) aux droits ou libertés acquis par règlement de revendications territoriales.

#### Maintien des autres droits etu libertés

##### 26

Le fait que la présente charte garantit certains droits et libertés ne constitue pas une négation des autres droits ou libertés qui existent au Canada.

#### Maintien du patrimoine culturel

##### 27

Toute interprétation de la présente charte doit concorder avec l’objectif de promouvoir le maintien et la valorisation du patrimoine multiculturel des Canadiens.

#### Égalité de garantie des droits pour les deux sexes

##### 28

Indépendamment des autres dispositions de la présente charte, les droits et libertés qui y sont mentionnés sont garantis également aux personnes des deux sexes.

#### Maintien des droits relatifs à certaines écoles

##### 29

Les dispositions de la présente charte ne portent pas atteinte aux droits ou privilèges garantis en vertu de la Constitution du Canada concernant les écoles séparées et autres écoles confessionnelles.

#### Application aux territories

##### 30

Dans la présente charte, les dispositions qui visent les provinces, leur législature ou leur assemblée législative visent également le territoire du Yukon, les territoires du Nord-Ouest ou leurs autorités législatives compétentes.

#### Non-élargissement des compétences législatives

##### 31

La présente charte n’élargit pas les compétences législatives de quelque organisme ou autorité que ce soit.

### Application de la charte

#### Application de la charte

##### 32

- (1) La présente charte s’applique:

- (a) au Parlement et au gouvernement du Canada, pour tous les domaines relevant du Parlement, y compris ceux qui concernent le territoire du Yukon et les territoires du Nord-Ouest ;

- (b) à la législature et au gouvernement de chaque province, pour tous les domaines relevant de cette législature.

Restriction 2 Par dérogation au paragraphe (1), l’article 15 n’a d’effet que trois ans après l’entrée en vigueur du présent article.

#### Dérogation par déclaration expresse

##### 33

- (1) Le Parlement ou la législature d’une province peut adopter une loi où il est expressément déclaré que celle-ci ou une de ses dispositions a effet indépendamment d’une disposition donnée de l’article 2 ou des articles 7 à 15 de la présente charte.

Effet de la dérogation 2 La loi ou la disposition qui fait l’objet d’une déclaration conforme au présent article et en vigueur a l’effet qu’elle aurait sauf la disposition en cause de la charte.

Durée de validité 3 La déclaration visée au paragraphe (1) cesse d’avoir effet à la date qui y est précisée ou, au plus tard, cinq ans après son entrée en vigueur.

Nouvelle adoption 4 Le Parlement ou une législature peut adopter de nouveau une déclaration visée au paragraphe (1).

Durée de validité 5 Le paragraphe (3) s’applique à toute déclaration adoptée sous le régime du paragraphe (4).

### Titre

#### Titre

##### 34

Titre de la présente partie: *Charte canadienne des droits et libertés*.

## PARTIE II — DROITS DES PEUPLES AUTOCHTONES DU CANADA

#### Confirmation des droits existants des peuples autochtones

##### 35

- (1) Les droits existants—ancestraux ou issus de traités—des peuples autochtones du Canada sont reconnus et confirmés.

Définition de "peuples autochtones du Canada" 2 Dans la présente loi, " peuples autochtones du Canada—s’entend notamment des Indiens, des Inuit et des Métis du Canada.

## PARTIE III — PÉRÉQUATION ET INÉGALITIÉS RÉGIONALES

#### Engagements relatifs a l’egalité des chance

##### 36

- (1) Sous réserve des compétences législatives du Parlement et des législatures et de leur droit de les exercer, le Parlement et les législatures, ainsi que les gouvernements fédéral et provinciaux, s’engagent à :

- (a) promouvoir l’égalité des chances de tous les Canadiens dans la recherche de leur bien-être ;

- (b) favoriser le développement économique pour réduire l’inégalité des chances ;

- (c) fournir à tous les Canadiens, à un niveau de qualité acceptable, les services publics essentiels.

Engagement relatif aux services publics 2 Le Parlement et le gouvernement du Canada prennent l’engagement de principe de faire des paiements de péréquation propres à donner aux gouvernements provinciaux des revenus suffisants pour les mettre en mesure d’assurer les services publics à un niveau de qualité et de fiscalité sensiblement comparables.

## PARTIE IV — CONFÉRENCE CONSTITUTIONNELLE

#### Conférence constitutionnelle

##### 37

- (1) Dans l’année suivant l’entrée en vigueur de la présente partie, le premier ministre du Canada convoque une conférence constitutionnelle réunissant les premiers ministres provinciaux et lui-même.

Participation des peuples autochtones 2 Sont placées à l’ordre du jour de la conférence visée au paragraphe (1) les questions constitutionnelles qui intéressent directement les peuples autochtones du Canada, notamment la détermination et la définition des droits de ces peuples à inscrire dans la Constitution du Canada. Le premier ministre du Canada invite leurs représentants à participer aux travaux relatifs à ces questions.

Participation des territoires 3 Le premier ministre du Canada invite des représentants élus des gouvernements du territoire du Yukon et des territoires du Nord-Ouest à participer aux travaux relatifs à toute question placée à l’ordre du jour de la conférence visée au paragraphe (1) et qui, selon lui, intéresse directement le territoire du Yukon et les territoires du Nord-Ouest.

## PARTIE V — PROCÉDURE DE MODIFICATION DE LA CONSTITUTION DU CANADA

#### Procédure normale de modification

##### 38

- (1) La Constitution du Canada peut être modifiée par proclamation du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada, autorisée à la fois :

- (a) par des résolutions du Sénat et de la Chambre des communes ;

- (b) par des résolutions des assemblées législatives d’au moins deux tiers des provinces dont la population confondue représente, selon le recensement général le plus récent à l’époque, au moins cinquante pour cent de la population de toutes les provinces.

Majorité simple 2 Une modification faite conformément au paragraphe (1) mais dérogatoire à la compétence législative, aux droits de propriété ou à tous autres droits ou privilèges d’une législature ou d’un gouvernement provincial exige une résolution adoptée à la majorité des sénateurs, des députés fédéraux et des députés de chacune des assemblées législatives du nombre requis de provinces.

Désaccord 3 La modification visée au paragraphe (2) est sans effet dans une province dont l’assemblée législative a, avant la prise de la proclamation, exprimé son désaccord par une résolution adoptée à la majorité des députés, sauf si cette assemblée, par résolution également adoptée à la majorité revient sur son désaccord et autorise la modification.

Levée du désaccord 4 La résolution de désaccord visée au paragraphe (3) peut être révoquée à tout moment, indépendamment de la date de la proclamation à laquelle elle se rapporte.

#### Restriction

##### 39

- (1) La proclamation visée au paragraphe 38(1) ne peut être prise dans l’année suivant l’adoption de la résolution à l’origine de la procédure de modification que si l’assemblée législative de chaque province a préalablement adopté une résolution d’agrément ou de désaccord.

Idem 2 La proclamation visée au paragraphe 38(1) ne peut être prise que dans les trois ans suivant l’adoption de la résolution à l’origine de la procédure de modification.

#### Compensation

##### 40

Le Canada fournit une juste compensation aux provinces auxquelles ne s’applique pas une modification faite conformément au paragraphe 38(1) et relative, en matière d’éducation ou dans d’autres domaines culturels, à un transfert de compétences législatives provinciales au Parlement.

#### Consentment unanime

##### 41

Toute modification de la Constitution du Canada portant sur les questions suivantes se fait par proclamation du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada, autorisé par des résolutions du Sénat, de la Chambre des communes et de l’assemblée législative de chaque province :

- (a) la charge de Reine, celle de gouverneur général et celle de lieutenant-gouverneur ;

- (b) le droit d’une province d’avoir à la Chambre des communes un nombre de députés au moins égal à celui des sénateurs par lesquels elle est habilitée à être représentée lors de l’entrée en vigueur de la présente partie ;

- (c) sous réserve de l’article 43, l’usage du français ou de l’anglais ;

- (d) la composition de la Cour suprême du Canada ;

- (e) la modification de la présente partie.

#### Procédure normale de modification

##### 42

- (1) Toute modification de la Constitution du Canada portant sur les questions suivantes se fait conformément au paragraphe 38(1):

- (a) le principe de la représentation proportionnelle des provinces à la Chambre des communes prévu par la Constitution du Canada ;

- (b) les pouvoirs du Sénat et le mode de sélection des sénateurs ;

- (c) le nombre des sénateurs par lesquels une province est habilitée à être représentée et les conditions de résidence qu’ils doivent remplir ;

- (d) sous réserve de l’alinéa 41(d), la Cour suprême du Canada ;

- (e) le rattachement aux provinces existantes de tout ou partie des territoires ;

- (f) par dérogation à toute autre loi ou usage, la création de provinces.

Exception 2 Les paragraphes 38(2) à (4) ne s’appliquent pas aux questions mentionnées au paragraphe (1).

#### Modification a l’egard de certaines provinces

##### 43

Les dispositions de la Constitution du Canada applicables à certaines provinces seulement ne peuvent être modifiées que par proclamation du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada, autorisée par des résolutions du Sénat, de la Chambre des communes et de l’assemblée législative de chaque province concernée. Le présent article s’applique notamment:

- (a) aux changements du tracé des frontières interprovinciales ;

- (b) aux modifications des dispositions relatives à l’usage du français ou de l’anglais dans une province.

#### Modification par le Parlement

##### 44

Sous réserve des articles 41 et 42, le Parlement a compétence exclusive pour modifier les dispositions de la Constitution du Canada relatives au pouvoir exécutif fédéral, au Sénat ou à la Chambre des communes.

#### Modification par les législatures

##### 45

Sous réserve de l’article 41, une législature a compétence exclusive pour modifier la constitution de sa province.

#### Initiative des procédures

##### 46

- (1) L’initiative des procédures de modification visées aux articles 38, 41, 42 et 43 appartient au Sénat, à la Chambre des communes ou à une assemblée législative.

Possibilitié de révocation 2 Une résolution d’agrément adoptée dans le cadre de la présente partie peut être révoquée à tout moment avant la date de la proclamation qu’elle autorise.

#### Modification sans résolution du Sénat

##### 47

- (1) Dans les cas visés à l’article 38, 41, 42 ou 43, il peut être passé outre au défaut d’autorisation du Sénat si celui-ci n’a pas adopté de résolution dans un délai de cent quatre-vingts jours suivant l’adoption de celle de la Chambre des communes et si cette dernière, après l’expiration du délai, adopte une nouvelle résolution dans le même sens.

Computation du délai 2 Dans la computation du délai visé au paragraphe (1), ne sont pas comptées les périodes pendant lesquelles le Parlement est prorogé ou dissous.

#### Demande au proclamation

##### 48

Le Conseil privé de la Reine pour le Canada demande au gouverneur général de prendre, conformément à la présente partie, une proclamation dès l’adoption des résolutions prévues par cette partie pour une modification par proclamation.

#### Conférence constitutionnelle

##### 49

Dans les quinze ans suivant l’entrée en vigueur de la présente partie, le premier ministre du Canada convoque une conférence constitutionnelle réunissant les premiers ministres provinciaux et lui-même, en vue du réexamen des dispositions de cette partie.

## PARTIE VI — MODIFICATION DE LA LOI CONSTITUTIONNELLE DE 1867

#### Modification de la Loi constitutionnelle de 1867

##### 50

La Loi constitutionnelle de 1867 (antérieurement désignée sous le titre ; Acte de l’Amérique du Nord britannique, 1867) est modifiée par insertion, après l’article 92, de la rubrique et de l’article suivants :

> (92A)
>   (1) La législature de chaque province a compétence exclusive pour légiférer dans les domaines suivants :
>     (a) prospection des ressources naturelles non renouvelables de la province ;
>     (b) exploitation, conservation et gestion des ressources naturelles non renouvelables et des ressources forestières de la province, y compris leur rythme de production primaire ;
>     (c) aménagement, conservation et gestion des emplacements et des installations de la province destinés à la production d’énergie électrique.
>   (2) La législature de chaque province a compétence pour légiférer en ce qui concerne l’exportation, hors de la province, à destination d’une autre partie du Canada, de la production primaire tirée des ressources naturelles non renouvelables et des ressources forestières de la province, ainsi que de la production d’énergie électrique de la province, sous réserve de ne pas adopter de lois autorisant ou prévoyant des disparités de prix ou des disparités dans les exportations destinés à une autre partie du Canada.
>   (3) Le paragraphe (2) ne porte pas atteinte au pouvoir du Parlement de légiférer dans les domaines visés à ce paragraphe, les dispositions d’une loi du Parlement adoptée dans ces domaines l’emportant sur les dispositions incompatibles d’une loi provinciale.
>   (4) La législature de chaque province a compétence pour prélever des sommes d’argent par tout mode ou système de taxation:
>     (a) des ressources naturelles non renouvelables et des ressources forestières de la province, ainsi que de la production primaire qui en est tirée ;
>     (b) des emplacements et des installations de la province destinés à la production d’énergie électrique, ainsi que de cette production même.
>     Cette compétence peut s’exercer indépendamment du fait que la production en cause soit ou non, en totalité ou en partie, exportée hors de la province, mais les lois adoptées dans ces domaines ne peuvent autoriser ou prévoir une taxation qui établisse une distinction entre la production exportée à destination d’une autre partie du Canada et la production non exportée hors de la province.
>   (5) L’expression " production primaire " a le sens qui lui est donné dans la sixième annexe.
>   (6) Les paragraphes (1) à (5) ne portent pas atteinte aux pouvoirs ou droits détenus par la législature ou le gouvernement d’une province lors de l’entrée en vigueur du présent article.

#### Idem

##### 51

Ladite loi est en outre modifiée par adjonction de l’annexe suivante :

> **SIXIÈME ANNEXE**
>   (1) Pour l’application de l’article 92A:
>     (a) on entend par production primaire tirée d’une ressource naturelle non renouvelable :
>       (i) soit le produit qui se présente sous la même forme que lors de son extraction du milieu naturel,
>       (ii) soit le produit non manufacturé de la transformation, du raffinage ou le l’affiage d’une ressource, à l’exception du produit du raffinage du pétrole brut, du raffinage du pétrole brut lourd amélioré, du raffinage des gaz ou des liquides dérivés du charbon ou du raffinage d’un équivalent synthétique du pétrole brut ;
>     (b) on entend par production primaire tirée d’une ressource forestière la production constituée de billots, de poteaux, de bois d’œuvre, de copeaux, de sciure ou d’autre produit primaire du bois, ou de pâte de bois, à l’exception d’un produit manufacturé en bois.

## PARTIE VII — DISPOSITIONS GÉNÉRALES

#### Primauté de la Constitution du Canada

##### 52

- (1) La Constitution du Canada est la loi suprême du Canada ; elle rend inopérantes les dispositions incompatibles de toute autre règle de droit.

Constitution du Canada 2 La Constitution du Canada comprend : a la *Loi de 1982 sur le Canada*, y compris la présente loi ; b les textes législatifs et les décrets figurant à l’annexe ; c les modifications des textes législatifs et des décrets mentionnés aux alinéas (a) ou (b).

Modification 3 La Constitution du Canada ne peut être modifiée que conformément aux pouvoirs conférés par elle.

#### Abrogation et nouveaux titres

##### 53

- (1) Les textes législatifs et les décrets énumérés à la colonne I de l’annexe sont abrogés ou modifiés dans la mesure indiquée à la colonne II. Sauf abrogation, ils restent en vigueur en tant que lois du Canada sous les titres mentionnés à la colonne III.

Modifications corrélatives 2 Tout texte législatif ou réglementaire, sauf la *Loi de 1982 sur le Canada*, qui fait mention d’un texte législatif ou décret figurant à l’annexe par le titre indiqué à la colonne I est modifié par substitution à ce titre du titre correspondant mentionné à la colonne III ; tout Acte de l’Amérique du Nord britannique non mentionné à l’annexe peut être cité sous le titre de Loi constitutionnelle suivi de l’indication de l’année de son adoption et éventuellement de son numéro.

#### Abrogation et modifications qui en découlent

##### 54

La partie IV est abrogée un an après l’entrée en vigueur de la présente partie et le gouverneur général peut, par proclamation sous le grand sceau du Canada, abroger le présent article et apporter en conséquence de cette double abrogation les aménagements qui s’imposent à la présente loi.

#### Version française de certains textes constitutionnels

##### 55

Le ministre de la Justice du Canada est chargé de rédiger, dans les meilleurs délais, la version française des parties de la Constitution du Canada qui figurent à l’annexe ; toute partie suffisamment importante est, dès qu’elle est prête, déposée pour adoption par proclamation du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada, conformément à la procédure applicable à l’époque à la modification des dispositions constitutionnelles qu’elle contient.

#### Versions française et anglaise de certains textes constitutionnels

##### 56

Les versions française et anglaise des parties de la Constitution du Canada adoptées dans ces deux langues ont également force de loi. En outre, ont également force de loi, dès l’adoption, dans le cadre de l’article 55, d’une partie de la version française de la Constitution, cette partie et la version anglaise correspondante.

#### Versions française et anglaise de la présente loi

##### 57

Les versions française et anglaise de la présente loi ont également force de loi.

#### Entrée en vigueur

##### 58

Sous réserve de l’article 59, la présente loi entre en vigueur à la date fixée par proclamation de la Reine ou du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada.

#### Entrée en vigueur de l’alinéa 23(1)(a) pour le Québec

##### 59

- (1) L’alinéa 23(1)(a) entre en vigueur pour le Québec à la date fixée par proclamation de la Reine ou du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada.

Autorisation du Québe 2 La proclamation visée au paragraphe (1) ne peut être prise qu’après autorisation de l’assemblée législative ou du gouvernement du Québec.

Abrogation du présent article 3 Le présent article peut être abrogé à la date d’entrée en vigueur de l’alinéa 23(1)(a) pour le Québec, et la présente loi faire l’objet, dès cette abrogation, des modifications et changements de numérotation qui en découlent, par proclamation de la Reine ou du gouverneur général sous le grand sceau du Canada.

#### Titres

##### 60

Titre abrégé de la présente loi : *Loi constitutionnelle de 1982* ; titre commun des lois constitutionnelles de 1867 à 1975 (n° 2) et de la présente loi : *Lois constitutionnelles de 1867 à 1982*.

## ANNEXE
