---
title: "Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2008"
identifier: "ukpga-2008-12"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2008-07-21"
last_updated: "2008-07-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2008/12"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to promote the reform of the statute law by the repeal, in accordance with recommendations of the Law Commission and the Scottish Law Commission, of certain enactments which (except in so far as their effect is preserved) are no longer of practical utility, and to make other provision in connection with the repeal of those enactments. 9"
last_modified_tna: "2018-07-12"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2008"
number: "12"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105412083"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2018-05-25"
number_of_provisions: "14"
stats_total_paragraphs: "139"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "136"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2008

#### Repeals and associated provisions

##### 1

- (1) The enactments referred to in Schedule 1 are repealed to the extent specified in the second column of that Schedule.

- (2) Schedule 2 (consequential and connected provisions) has effect.

#### Extent

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to the whole of the United Kingdom.

- (2) This Act also extends to the Isle of Man.

- (3) Subject to subsection (5), the repeals and amendments in Schedules 1 and 2 have the same extent as the enactments repealed or amended, except as mentioned in the relevant entry.

- (4) Her Majesty may by Order in Council provide—

- (a) that the repeal by this Act of any enactment specified in the Order shall on a date so specified extend to any of the Channel Islands or any British overseas territory, and

- (b) that any provision of Schedule 2 specified in the Order shall on a date so specified extend to any of the Channel Islands or any British overseas territory subject to any modification so specified.

- (5) Except as provided by an order under subsection (4), this Act does not repeal or amend any enactment so far as the enactment forms part of the law of a country outside the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man.

#### Short Title

##### 3

This Act may be cited as the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 2008.

## SCHEDULE 1

## Part 1 — Armed Forces

## Part 2 — County Gaols

## Part 3 — Criminal Law

## Part 4 — East India Company

## Part 5 — London

## Part 6 — Police

## Part 7 — Rating

## Part 8 — Tax and Duties

## Part 9 — Town and Country Planning

## Part 10 — Turnpikes

## Part 11 — Miscellaneous

## SCHEDULE 2

#### Customs Consolidation Act 1876 (c. 36)

##### 1

In section 42 of the Customs Consolidation Act 1876 (prohibitions and restrictions), in the Table of prohibitions and restrictions inwards, insert as the first entry under the heading “Goods prohibited to be imported”—

> All articles bearing or having affixed to them any stamp, name, writing, or other device implying or tending to imply any sanction or guarantee by the Customs or by any other Department of the Government.

.

#### Greenwich Hospital Act 1883 (c. 32)

##### 2

The repeal by this Act of section 2 of, and Schedule 1 to, the Greenwich Hospital Act [1947 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1947/5) does not affect the amendment made by those provisions to section 2 of the Greenwich Hospital Act 1883 (power to grant pensions, allowances and gratuities).

#### Finance Act 1901 (c. 7)

##### 3

In section 10 of the Finance Act 1901 (addition or deduction of new or altered duties in the case of contract), after subsection (3) insert—

> (3A) This section applies whether or not the goods have undergone a process of manufacture or preparation, or have become a part or ingredient of other goods.

.

#### Sailors and Soldiers (Gifts for Land Settlement) Act 1916 (c. 60)

##### 4

The repeal by this Act of the Sailors and Soldiers (Gifts for Land Settlement) Act 1916 does not affect the operation of section 1 of that Act (power to accept and administer gifts for settlement of ex-sailors and soldiers on land) in relation to any gift accepted before the commencement of this Act.

#### Naval and Military War Pensions &c. (Administrative Expenses) Act 1917 (c. 14)

##### 5

After section 6 of the Naval and Military War Pensions &c. (Administrative Expenses) Act 1917 insert—

> (6A) It shall be a function of the Secretary of State to make provision for the care of disabled officers and men and disabled nurses after they have left naval, military or air force service, including provision for their health.

.

#### Currency and Bank Notes Act 1928 (c. 13)

##### 6

In section 3 of the Currency and Bank Notes Act 1928 (securities for note issue to be held in issue department), after subsection (3) add—

> (4) In this section the expression “securities” includes securities and assets in currency of any country and in whatever form held.

.

#### Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (c. 49)

##### 7

The repeal by this Act of section 12 of the Town and Country Amenities Act [1974 (c. 32)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1974/32) does not affect the amendment made by that section to section 4(1) of the Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953 (grants for preservation of historic buildings, their contents and adjoining land).

#### Local Government Act 1972 (c. 70)

##### 8

The repeal by this Act of section 1 of the Police (Insurance of Voluntary Assistants) Act [1997 (c. 45)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1997/45) does not affect the amendments made by that section to section 146A of the Local Government Act 1972 (Joint Authorities and Inner London Education Authority).

#### Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (c. 65)

##### 9

The repeal by this Act of subsection (1) of section 1 of the Urban Development Corporations (Financial Limits) Act [1987 (c. 57)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1987/57) does not affect the substitution by that subsection of paragraph 8 of Schedule 31 to the Local Government, Planning and Land Act 1980 (financial limits of urban development corporations).

#### Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (c. 8)

##### 10

The repeal by this Act of section 1 of the Town and Country Planning (Costs of Inquiries etc.) Act [1995 (c. 49)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1995/49) does not affect—

- (a) the amendment made by that section to section 35B of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (examinations in public in connection with structure plans), or

- (b) the insertion by that section of section 303A of the 1990 Act (responsibility of local planning authorities for costs of holding certain inquiries etc).
