---
title: "Appropriation (No. 3) Act 2005 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-2005-21"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2005-07-20"
last_updated: "2005-07-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/21"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the use of resources for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006 and to apply certain sums out of the Consolidated Fund to the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006; to appropriate the supply authorised in this Session of Parliament for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006; and to repeal certain Consolidated Fund and Appropriation Acts."
last_modified_tna: "2015-01-30"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2005"
number: "21"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105421057"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2007-07-19"
number_of_provisions: "14"
stats_total_paragraphs: "73"
stats_body_paragraphs: "5"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "68"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Appropriation (No. 3) Act 2005 (repealed)

#### Use of resources for the year ending with 31st March 2006

##### 1

The use of resources for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006 is authorised to the amount of £277,697,379,000.

#### Issue out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending with 31st March 2006

##### 2

The Treasury may issue out of the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom and apply to the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006 the sum of £203,017,367,000.

#### Appropriation of amounts and sums voted for supply services and limits on appropriations in aid

##### 3

- (1) All the amounts and sums authorised by this Act for the service of the year ending with 31st March 2006, totalling, as is shown in Schedule 1, £277,697,379,000 in amounts of resources authorised for use and £203,017,367,000 in sums authorised for issue from the Consolidated Fund, are appropriated for the services and purposes specified in Schedule 2.

- (2) Where a note to any Part of Schedule 2 states that the authorisation for use or issue of any amount is further to another amount previously appropriated by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8) to a Request for Resources or Estimate in Schedule 2 to that Act, that other amount—

- (a) is hereby appropriated, and

- (b) shall be deemed to have been appropriated from the beginning of the year beginning with 1st April 2005,

to the services and purposes to which the note relates (instead of to that Request for Resources or Estimate).

- (3) Parts 1 to 52, 54 and 55 of Schedule 2 also set out, for the services and purposes specified in those Parts of that Schedule, the limits set for the purposes of section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act [2000 (c. 20)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2000/20) on the resources applicable as appropriations in aid for the year ending with 31st March 2006.

- (4) Those limits shall be deemed to have been in force from 25th May 2005.

- (5) A direction given after the passing of this Act for authorising the application of resources as appropriations in aid for the year ending with 31st March 2006—

- (a) may, to the extent of any excess proposed in Estimates or in a Statement of Excesses laid before the House of Commons, authorise appropriations in aid in excess of the relevant limit set for the purposes of section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts Act 2000 for that year by this Act or a previous Appropriation Act; but

- (b) where the limit so set has not, by 12th August following the giving of the direction, been increased by a subsequent Appropriation Act or has by that date been so increased by less than the excess, shall be deemed to have authorised appropriations in aid only up to that limit or, as the case may be, up to that limit as so increased.

- (6) Nothing in Schedule 2 limits the amounts which are or may be made applicable, in accordance with any direction, as appropriations in aid of resources for the service of the House of Commons Administration for any year.

- (7) The abstracts of Schedule 1 and of Schedule 2 which are annexed to this Act shall have effect as part of this Act.

#### Repeals

##### 4

The enactments mentioned in Schedule 3 are hereby repealed.

#### Short title

##### 5

This Act may be cited as the Appropriation (No. 3) Act 2005.

## ABSTRACT OF SCHEDULE 1

## ABSTRACT OF SCHEDULE 2

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

## Part 1 — Department for Education and Skills, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 2 — Teachers' Pension Scheme (England & Wales), 2005–06

Table of—

#### Note

##### 1

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 to the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), the title of the Estimate which is now entitled Teachers' Pension Scheme (England & Wales) was Teachers' Pension Scheme.

## Part 3 — Office of Her Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Schools in England, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 4 — Department of Health, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 5 — National Health Service Pension Scheme, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 6 — Food Standards Agency, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 7 — Department for Transport, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 8 — Office of Rail Regulation, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 9 — Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 10 — Home Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 11 — Assets Recovery Agency, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 12 — Charity Commission, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 13 — Department for Constitutional Affairs, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 14 — Department for Constitutional Affairs: Judicial Pensions Scheme, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 15 — Northern Ireland Court Service, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 16 — The National Archives: Public Record Office and Historical Manuscripts Commission, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 17 — The Crown Prosecution Service, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 18 — Serious Fraud Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 19 — HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 20 — Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office, 2005–06

Table of—

#### Notes

##### 2

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office Estimate are further to—

- (a) the resources totalling £12,633,000 previously appropriated, by theAppropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to Request for Resources 2 of the H M Customs and Excise Estimate in Part 39 of Schedule 2 to that Act; and

- (b) resources totalling £3,389,000 previously so appropriated to Request for Resources 1 of the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of that Schedule.

##### 3

The further sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the Revenue and Customs Prosecutions Office Estimate are further to—

- (a) sums totalling £12,633,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to the H M Customs and Excise Estimate in Part 39 of Schedule 2 to that Act; and

- (b) sums totalling £3,389,000 previously so appropriated to the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of that Schedule.

## Part 21 — Ministry of Defence, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 22 — Armed Forces Retired Pay, Pensions etc, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 23 — Foreign and Commonwealth Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 24 — Department for International Development, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 25 — Department for International Development: Overseas Superannuation, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 26 — Department of Trade and Industry, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 27 — UK Trade & Investment, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 28 — Department of Trade and Industry: UKAEA Pension Schemes, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 29 — Export Credits Guarantee Department, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 30 — Office of Fair Trading, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 31 — Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 32 — Postal Services Commission, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 33 — Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 34 — Forestry Commission, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 35 — Office of Water Services, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 36 — Department for Culture, Media and Sport, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 37 — Department for Work and Pensions, 2005–06

Table of—

#### Note

##### 4

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 5 of the Department for Work and Pensions Estimate (Corporate contracts and support services) are further to—

- (a) the resources totalling £186,519,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to the then Request for Resources 5 of the Estimate (Modernise welfare delivery so as to improve the accessibility, accuracy and value for money of services to customers, including employers) in Part 36 of Schedule 2 to that Act; and

- (b) the resources totalling £463,927,000 previously so appropriated to Request for Resources 6 of the Estimate (Corporate contracts, support services and administration of the European Social Fund for England) in that Part of that Schedule.

## Part 38 — Northern Ireland Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 39 — HM Treasury, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 40 — HM Revenue and Customs, 2005–06

Table of—

#### Notes

##### 5

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 1 of H M Revenue and Customs Estimate are further to—

- (a) the resources totalling £545,397,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to Request for Resources 1 of the H M Customs and Excise Estimate in Part 39 of Schedule 2 to that Act; and

- (b) resources totalling £1,158,139,000 previously so appropriated to Request for Resources 1 of the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of that Schedule.

##### 6

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 3 of the H M Revenue and Customs Estimate are further to the resources totalling £54,450,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to Request for Resources 3 of the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of Schedule 2 to that Act.

##### 7

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 4 of the H M Revenue and Customs Estimate are further to the resources totalling £26,529,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to Request for Resources 4 of the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of Schedule 2 to that Act.

##### 8

The further resources authorised for use in respect of Request for Resources 5 of the H M Revenue and Customs Estimate are further to the resources totalling £4,595,975,000 previously appropriated, by the Appropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to Request for Resources 5 of the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of Schedule 2 to that Act.

##### 9

The further sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund in respect of the H M Revenue and Customs Estimate are further to—

- (a) sums totalling £554,466,000 previously appropriated, by theAppropriation (No. 2) Act [2005 (c. 8)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/8), to the H M Customs and Excise Estimate in Part 39 of Schedule 2 to that Act; and

- (b) sums totalling £6,158,379,000 previously so appropriated to the Inland Revenue Estimate in Part 40 of that Schedule.

## Part 41 — National Savings and Investments, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 42 — Office for National Statistics, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 43 — Government Actuary’s Department, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 44 — Crown Estate Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 45 — Cabinet Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 46 — Security and Intelligence Agencies, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 47 — Cabinet Office: Civil superannuation, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 48 — Central Office of Information, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 49 — Privy Council Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 50 — Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and Health Service Commissioner for England, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 51 — House of Lords, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 52 — House of Commons: Members, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 53 — House of Commons: Administration, 2005–06

Table of the further resources authorised for use and the further sums authorised for issue out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending with 31st March 2006, arising from Estimates laid before the House of Commons under section 3 of the House of Commons (Administration) Act [1978 (c. 36)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1978/36).

## Part 54 — National Audit Office, 2005–06

Table of—

## Part 55 — Electoral Commission, 2005–06

Table of—

## SCHEDULE 3

#### Use of resources for the year ending with 31st March 2006

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Note

### Notes

### Note

### Notes

## Editorial notes

[^key-63a66412df2e297411704269ced3187c]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2005/21) repealed (19.7.2007) by [Appropriation (No. 2) Act 2007 (c. 10)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2007/10), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2007/10/schedule/3)
