---
title: "Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2021"
identifier: "ukpga-2021-6"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2021-03-15"
last_updated: "2021-03-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the use of resources for the years ending with 31 March 2019, 31 March 2020, 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2022; to authorise the issue of sums out of the Consolidated Fund for the years ending 31 March 2020, 31 March 2021 and 31 March 2022; and to appropriate the supply authorised by this Act for the years ending with 31 March 2019, 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2021."
last_modified_tna: "2021-03-24"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2021"
number: "6"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105701101"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2021-03-15"
number_of_provisions: "13"
stats_total_paragraphs: "113"
stats_body_paragraphs: "8"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "105"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2021

### Vote on Account for 2021-22

#### Vote on account for 2021-22

##### 1

- (1) The use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2022 is authorised up to the amount of £399,463,172,000.

- (2) Of the amount authorised by subsection [(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/1/1/enacted)—

- (a) £345,682,776,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

- (b) £53,780,396,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

- (3) The Treasury may—

- (a) issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

- (b) apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2022 for expenditure authorised by Parliament,

up to the amount of £364,923,586,000.

### Supplementary provision for 2020-21

#### Authorisation of supplementary provision for 2020-21

##### 2

- (1) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2021 is to be treated as further increased by £309,983,867,000.

- (2) In relation to the further amount treated as authorised by subsection [(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/2/1/enacted)—

- (a) the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for current purposes is to be treated as further increased by £268,429,693,000, and

- (b) the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for capital purposes is to be treated as further increased by £41,554,174,000.

- (3) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred on the Treasury—

- (a) to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

- (b) to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2021 for expenditure authorised by Parliament,

is to be treated as further increased by £177,467,583,000.

- (4) The increases for which this section provides are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2020.

#### Appropriation of supplementary provision for 2020-21

##### 3

- (1) For the purposes of—

- (a) appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending with 31 March 2021 is authorised by section 2[(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/2/1/enacted), and

- (b) appropriating the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated Fund is authorised by section 2[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/2/3/enacted),

the Main Estimates Act 2020 is to be treated as having effect with the adjustments provided for in Schedule 1 to this Act.

- (2) Schedule 1 specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as made to the amounts originally specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates Act 2020.

- (3) For the purpose of making the adjustments in Schedule 1—

- (a) a negative adjustment has effect to reduce an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus (which is expressed as if it were itself a negative amount), increases the amount of the surplus, and

- (b) a positive adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

- (4) Accordingly—

- (a) where an adjustment by a negative amount of more than the amount itself is made to an amount of authorised expenditure, what results is an estimated surplus, and

- (b) where an adjustment by a positive amount of more than the amount itself is made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised expenditure.

- (5) Where, in Schedule 1, a description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise (“description A”) differs from the description contained in the corresponding part of the Scheduled Estimates in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2020 (“description B”), Schedule 1 has effect for adjusting that corresponding part by substituting description A for description B.

- (6) Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a Scheduled Estimate in the Schedule to the Main Estimates Act 2020 relates, Schedule 1 contains a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from which income may arise, Schedule 1 has effect for adjusting that Scheduled Estimate by treating the new description as included in it.

- (7) In this section—

- “estimated surplus” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act 2020;

- “Main Estimates Act 2020” means the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2020.

- (8) The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2020.

### Excesses for 2019-20

#### Authorisation of excesses for 2019-20

##### 4

- (1) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2020 is to be treated as further increased, for the purpose of making good excesses, by £8,312,939,000.

- (2) Of the further amount treated as authorised by subsection [(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/4/1/enacted)—

- (a) £8,280,607,000 is to be treated as authorised for use for current purposes, and

- (b) £32,332,000 is to be treated as authorised for use for capital purposes.

- (3) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred on the Treasury—

- (a) to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

- (b) to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2020 for expenditure authorised by Parliament,

is to be treated as further increased, for the purpose of making good excesses, by £3,711,646,000.

- (4) The increases for which this section provides are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2019.

#### Appropriation of excesses for 2019-20

##### 5

- (1) For the purpose of appropriating—

- (a) the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending with 31 March 2020 is authorised by section 4[(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/4/1/enacted), and

- (b) the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated Fund is authorised by section 4[(3)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/4/3/enacted),

the Main Estimates Act 2019 is to be treated as having effect with the adjustments provided for in Schedule 2 to this Act.

- (2) Schedule 2 specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as made to the amounts specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates Act 2019 and to the amounts treated as so specified.

- (3) For the purpose of making the adjustments in Schedule 2 an adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

- (4) Accordingly, where an adjustment of more than the amount itself is made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised expenditure.

- (5) In this section a reference to an amount treated as specified in a Scheduled Estimate is a reference to any amount treated as so specified in consequence of any adjustment made by virtue of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2020, and references to adjusting such an amount are to be read accordingly.

- (6) In this section—

- “estimated surplus” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act 2019;

- “Main Estimates Act 2019” means the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2019.

- (7) The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2019.

### Late excesses for 2018-19

#### Authorisation of late excesses for 2018-19

##### 6

- (1) The amount up to which authorisation was conferred for the use of resources for the year ending with 31 March 2019 is to be treated as further increased, for the purpose of making good excesses, by £312,093,000.

- (2) The further amount treated as authorised by subsection (1) is to be treated as authorised for current purposes.

- (3) The increase for which this section provides is to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2018.

#### Appropriation of late excesses for 2018-19

##### 7

- (1) For the purpose of appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending with 31 March 2019 is authorised by section 6[(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2021/6/section/6/1/enacted), the Main Estimates Act 2018 is to be treated as having effect with the adjustments provided for in Schedule 3 to this Act.

- (2) Schedule 3 specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as made to the amounts specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the Main Estimates Act 2018 and to the amounts treated as so specified.

- (3) For the purpose of making the adjustments in Schedule 3 an adjustment has effect to increase an amount of authorised expenditure and, where applied to an estimated surplus, reduces it.

- (4) Accordingly, where an adjustment of more than the amount itself is made to the amount of an estimated surplus, what results is an amount of authorised expenditure.

- (5) In this section a reference to an amount treated as specified in a Scheduled Estimate is a reference to any amount treated as so specified in consequence of any adjustment made by virtue of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2019, and references to adjusting such an amount are to be read accordingly.

- (6) In this section—

- “estimated surplus” has the same meaning as in the Main Estimates Act 2018;

- “Main Estimates Act 2018” means the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2018.

- (7) The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2018.

### General

#### Short title

##### 8

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2021.

## SCHEDULE 1

##### 1

- (1) In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of a description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income may arise, the description is a description which was not included in the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2020 as originally enacted.

- (2) Text which follows an asterisk (*) is added by this Schedule.

##### 2

In the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2020, the title of the Estimate that is now entitled “Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office” was “Department for International Development”.

##### 3

In the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2020, the title of the Estimate that is now entitled “Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas Superannuation” was “Department for International Development: Overseas Superannuation”.

## SCHEDULE 2

##### 1

- (1) In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of any description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income may arise, the description is a description which was not included in the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2019 as originally enacted.

- (2) Text which follows an asterisk (*) was added by the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2020.

## SCHEDULE 3

##### 1

- (1) In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of any description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income may arise, the description is a description which was not included in the Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2018 as originally enacted.

- (2) Text which follows an asterisk (*) was added by Schedule 1 to the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments) Act 2019.
