---
title: "Divorce (Religious Marriages) Act 2002"
identifier: "ukpga-2002-27"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2002-07-24"
last_updated: "2003-02-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/27"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision enabling a court to require the dissolution of a religious marriage before granting a civil divorce."
last_modified_tna: "2015-05-24"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2002"
number: "27"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105427020"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2003-02-24"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Divorce (Religious Marriages) Act 2002

#### Power to refuse decree absolute if steps not taken to dissolve religious marriage

##### 1

- (1) In the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 (c. 18), insert—

> (10A)
>   (1) This section applies if a decree of divorce has been granted but not made absolute and the parties to the marriage concerned—
>     (a) were married in accordance with—
>       (i) the usages of the Jews, or
>       (ii) any other prescribed religious usages; and
>     (b) must co-operate if the marriage is to be dissolved in accordance with those usages.
>   (2) On the application of either party, the court may order that a decree of divorce is not to be made absolute until a declaration made by both parties that they have taken such steps as are required to dissolve the marriage in accordance with those usages is produced to the court.
>   (3) An order under subsection (2)—
>     (a) may be made only if the court is satisfied that in all the circumstances of the case it is just and reasonable to do so; and
>     (b) may be revoked at any time.
>   (4) A declaration of a kind mentioned in subsection (2)—
>     (a) must be in a specified form;
>     (b) must, in specified cases, be accompanied by such documents as may be specified; and
>     (c) must, in specified cases, satisfy such other requirements as may be specified.
>   (5) The validity of a decree of divorce made by reference to such a declaration is not to be affected by any inaccuracy in that declaration.
>   (6) “*Prescribed*” means prescribed in an order made by the Lord Chancellor and such an order—
>     (a) must be made by statutory instrument;
>     (b) shall be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.
>   (7) “*Specified*” means specified in rules of court.

- (2) Subsections (3) and (4) of section 9 of the Family Law Act 1996 (c. 27) (arrangements on divorce: religious marriages) are repealed.

#### Short title, commencement and extent

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Divorce (Religious Marriages) Act 2002.

- (2) Section 1 comes into force on such day as the Lord Chancellor may appoint by order made by statutory instrument.

- (3) This Act extends to England and Wales only.

#### Power to refuse decree absolute if steps not taken to dissolve religious marriage

#### Short title, commencement and extent

## Editorial notes

[^key-7b6330bde6b33147022b1357599bff4c]: [S. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/27/section/1) in force at 24.2.2003 by [S.I. 2003/186](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/186), [art. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2003/186/article/2)
