---
title: "Civil Defence (Grant) Act 2002 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-2002-5"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2002-02-26"
last_updated: "2002-02-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/5"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to replace section 3 of the Civil Defence Act 1948 in so far as it applies to authorities in England or Wales."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2002"
number: "5"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105405027"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S"
restrict_start_date: "2005-11-14"
number_of_provisions: "5"
stats_total_paragraphs: "5"
stats_body_paragraphs: "5"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Civil Defence (Grant) Act 2002 (repealed)

#### Civil defence: grants

##### 1

- (1) The following shall be substituted for section 3 of the Civil Defence Act [1948 (c. 5)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1948/5) (grants) in so far as it applies in relation to authorities in England or Wales—

> (3)
>   (1) For each financial year the designated Minister shall make grants to authorities on whom functions are conferred under section 2.
>   (2) For each financial year the designated Minister shall—
>     (a) determine the aggregate amount of grants to be made under subsection (1),
>     (b) determine for each authority the amount of grant (if any) to be made under subsection (1),
>     (c) publish each amount determined under paragraph (a) or (b),
>     (d) publish any formula or other criteria used to determine whether to make a grant to an authority, and
>     (e) publish any formula or other criteria used to determine the amount of a grant.
>   (3) The designated Minister—
>     (a) may use different formulae or other criteria in making determinations for different authorities, and
>     (b) may vary a determination by a further determination.
> (3A) The designated Minister may make a grant to an authority on whom a function is conferred under section 2 (whether or not in addition to any grant under section 3).
> (3B)
>   (1) Grant under section 3 or 3A shall be paid in such manner and at such time as the designated Minister determines.
>   (2) In particular—
>     (a) a grant for a financial year need not be paid in that year, and
>     (b) a grant may be paid in instalments.
>   (3) A grant under section 3 or 3A may be conditional.
>   (4) An authority shall repay to the designated Minister any sum which—
>     (a) the authority receives by way of grant under section 3 for a financial year, and
>     (b) exceeds the amount to which the authority is entitled under that section for that year (whether or not by virtue of a varying determination under section 3(3)(b)).

- (2) In section 2(3) of the Civil Protection in Peacetime Act [1986 (c. 22)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/1986/22) (emergency) for the words “regulations made under section 3 of that Act” there shall be substituted the words “under section 3 or 3A of that Act”.

#### General

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Civil Defence (Grant) Act 2002.

- (2) This Act shall have effect in relation to—

- (a) the financial year ending with 31st March 2003, and

- (b) later financial years.

- (3) This Act does not extend to Northern Ireland.
