---
title: "Secure Tenancies (Victims of Domestic Abuse) Act 2018"
identifier: "ukpga-2018-11"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2018-05-10"
last_updated: "2018-05-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2018/11"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision about the granting of old-style secure tenancies in cases of domestic abuse."
last_modified_tna: "2018-07-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2018"
number: "11"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105700111"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2018-05-10"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Secure Tenancies (Victims of Domestic Abuse) Act 2018

#### Duty to grant old-style secure tenancies: victims of domestic abuse

##### 1

- (1) Section 81B of the Housing Act 1985 (cases where old-style English secure tenancies may be granted) is amended as follows.

- (2) After subsection (2) insert—

> (2A) A local housing authority that grants a secure tenancy of a dwelling-house in England must grant an old-style secure tenancy if—
>   (a) the tenancy is offered to a person who is or was a tenant of some other dwelling-house under a qualifying tenancy (whether as the sole tenant or as a joint tenant), and
>   (b) the authority is satisfied that—
>     (i) the person or a member of the person’s household is or has been a victim of domestic abuse carried out by another person, and
>     (ii) the new tenancy is granted for reasons connected with that abuse.
> (2B) A local housing authority that grants a secure tenancy of a dwelling-house in England must grant an old-style secure tenancy if—
>   (a) the tenancy is offered to a person who was a joint tenant of that dwelling-house under an old-style secure tenancy, and
>   (b) the authority is satisfied that—
>     (i) the person or a member of the person’s household is or has been a victim of domestic abuse carried out by another person, and
>     (ii) the new tenancy is granted for reasons connected with that abuse.
> (2C) In subsections [(2A)](#p00004) and [(2B)](#p00006)—
>   - “abuse” means— violence, threatening, intimidating, coercive or controlling behaviour, or any other form of abuse, including emotional, financial, physical, psychological or sexual abuse;
>   - “domestic abuse” is abuse where the victim is or has been— in the same family or household as the abuser, or in an intimate personal relationship with the abuser;
>   - “qualifying tenancy” means a tenancy of a dwelling-house in England which is— an old-style secure tenancy, or an assured tenancy which is not an assured shorthold tenancy and which is granted by a private registered provider of social housing, by the Regulator of Social Housing or by a housing trust which is a charity.

- (3) In subsection (1)(b), after “(2)” insert “, [(2A)](#p00004) or [(2B)](#p00006)”.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

##### 2

- (1) This Act extends to England and Wales only.

- (2) Section 1 of this Act comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint.

- (3) This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

- (4) This Act may be cited as the Secure Tenancies (Victims of Domestic Abuse) Act 2018.
