---
title: "Citizenship (Armed Forces) Act 2014"
identifier: "ukpga-2014-8"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2014-03-13"
last_updated: "2014-03-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2014/8"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to make provision in connection with applications for naturalisation as a British citizen made by members or former members of the armed forces."
last_modified_tna: "2022-10-27"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2014"
number: "8"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105408147"
restrict_extent: "E+W+S+N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2022-06-28"
number_of_provisions: "2"
stats_total_paragraphs: "2"
stats_body_paragraphs: "2"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Citizenship (Armed Forces) Act 2014

#### Applications for citizenship by members or former members of armed forces

##### 1

- (1) Schedule 1 to the British Nationality Act 1981 (requirements for naturalisation as a British citizen under section 6(1) of that Act) is amended in accordance with subsections (2) and (3).

- (2) Paragraph 2 becomes sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph.

- (3) After that sub-paragraph insert—

> (2) Sub-paragraph (3) applies in a case where, on the date of the application, the applicant is or has been a member of the armed forces.
> (3) If in the special circumstances of the particular case the Secretary of State thinks fit, he may for the purposes of paragraph 1 treat the applicant as fulfilling the requirement specified in paragraph 1(2)(a) although the applicant was not in the United Kingdom at the beginning of the period there mentioned.

- (4) In section 39 of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009 (which contains further amendments of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the British Nationality Act 1981)—

- (a) in subsection (4) for the words from the beginning to “paragraph)” substitute “In sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 2 of that Schedule”;

- (b) in subsection (9) for the words “After that sub-paragraph insert” substitute “For sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) of paragraph 2 substitute”.

#### Citation, commencement and extent

##### 2

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Citizenship (Armed Forces) Act 2014.

- (2) This Act comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on which it is passed.

- (3) This Act extends to—

- (a) England and Wales,

- (b) Scotland,

- (c) Northern Ireland,

- (d) the Channel Islands,

- (e) the Isle of Man, and

- (f) the British overseas territories.
