---
title: "Football (Disorder) (Amendment) Act 2002 (repealed)"
identifier: "ukpga-2002-12"
country: "uk"
rank: "public-general-act"
publication_date: "2002-05-01"
last_updated: "2002-05-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2002/12"
department: "Statute Law Database"
long_title: "An Act to amend section 5 of the Football (Disorder) Act 2000; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2015-05-22"
type_code: "ukpga"
year: "2002"
number: "12"
document_main_type: "UnitedKingdomPublicGeneralAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105412023"
restrict_extent: "E+W"
restrict_start_date: "2007-04-06"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Football (Disorder) (Amendment) Act 2002 (repealed)

#### Amendment of Football (Disorder) Act 2000

##### 1

- (1) Section 5 of the Football (Disorder) Act 2000 (which makes provision limiting the duration in force of provisions inserted by that Act into the Football Spectators Act 1989) is amended as set out in subsections (2) and (3).

- (2) For subsection (2) there is substituted—

> (2) But—
>   (a) no application under section 14B of the Football Spectators Act 1989 (banning orders made on a complaint) may be made, and
>   (b) no power conferred on a constable by section 21A or 21B of that Act (summary measures) may be exercised,
> after the end of the period of five years beginning with the day on which section 1 of the Football (Disorder) (Amendment) Act 2002 comes into force.

- (3) Subsections (3) to (5) are repealed.

- (4) In consequence of the provision made by subsection (3), in section 3(4) of the Football (Disorder) Act 2000 (which makes provision as to the parliamentary procedure applicable to certain orders), the words “An order under section 5(4), and” are repealed.

#### Expenses

##### 2

There shall be paid out of money provided by Parliament any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable out of money provided by Parliament under any other enactment.

#### Short title, commencement and extent

##### 3

- (1) This Act may be cited as the Football (Disorder) (Amendment) Act 2002.

- (2) Section 1 shall come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument appoint.

- (3) This Act extends to England and Wales only.
