---
title: "Edinburgh Bakers' Widows' Fund Act 2018"
identifier: "asp-2018-1"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-scottish-parliament"
publication_date: "2018-01-12"
last_updated: "2018-01-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2018/1"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-sct"
long_title: "An Act of the Scottish Parliament to allow the Trustees of the Widows' Scheme of the Incorporation of Bakers of the City of Edinburgh to make capital payments to certain persons who might otherwise have been entitled to annuity payments from the Widows' Fund for the Incorporation of Bakers within the City of Edinburgh; to transfer the remaining property, rights, interests and liabilities of the Widows' Fund to a successor charitable trust; to dissolve the Widows' Fund; and for connected purposes"
last_modified_tna: "2018-02-21"
type_code: "asp"
year: "2018"
number: "1"
document_main_type: "ScottishAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105903246"
restrict_extent: "S"
restrict_start_date: "2018-01-13"
number_of_provisions: "6"
stats_total_paragraphs: "6"
stats_body_paragraphs: "6"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Edinburgh Bakers' Widows' Fund Act 2018

#### Capital payments to wives of contributing members

##### 1

- (1) The Trustees may make a single capital payment to each person who, on 13 November 2015, was the wife of a contributing member of the Widows’ Fund, in lieu of prospective annuities that such a person would otherwise have been entitled to receive under the 1813 Act, in the event of being widowed.

- (2) Where a person such as is referred to in subsection (1) accepts a payment under that subsection, she loses any future entitlement, should she be widowed, to annuity payments from the Widows’ Fund.

- (3) The Trustees are to make any payments under subsection (1) within a period of one month beginning with the day after Royal Assent.

#### Transfer of property etc.

##### 2

- (1) The property, rights, interests and liabilities of the Widows’ Fund are transferred to and vested in The Incorporation of Bakers of Edinburgh Charitable Trust (registered Scottish Charity Number SC047164).

- (2) The property that is transferred under subsection (1) is the remaining property after the payments authorised under section 1 have been made.

#### Dissolution and repeal

##### 3

- (1) The Widows’ Fund is dissolved.

- (2) The 1813 Act is repealed.

#### Interpretation

##### 4

In this Act—

- “the Trustees” mean the Trustees of the Widows’ Scheme of the Incorporation of Bakers of the City of Edinburgh,

- “the Widows’ Fund” means The Widows’ Fund for the Incorporation of Bakers within the City of Edinburgh,

- “the 1813 Act” means the Edinburgh Bakers’ Widows’ Fund Act 1813 (an Act for Providing a Fund for Annuities for Widows of Members of the Incorporation of Bakers of the City of Edinburgh) (53 Geo.3, c. cxxvi).

#### Commencement

##### 5

- (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), this Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

- (2) Section 2 comes into force at the end of the period of one month and one day beginning with the day after Royal Assent.

- (3) Section 3 comes into force at the end of the period of one month and two days beginning with the day after Royal Assent.

#### Short title

##### 6

The short title of this Act is the Edinburgh Bakers’ Widows’ Fund Act 2018.
