---
title: "Scottish Parliament (Assistance for Political Parties) Act 2021"
identifier: "asp-2021-7"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-scottish-parliament"
publication_date: "2021-03-22"
last_updated: "2021-03-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2021/7"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-sct"
long_title: "An Act of the Scottish Parliament to enable the Parliament to make provision by resolution for payments to registered political parties for the purpose of assisting members of the Parliament who are connected with the parties to perform their Parliamentary duties."
last_modified_tna: "2021-03-27"
type_code: "asp"
year: "2021"
number: "7"
document_main_type: "ScottishAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105903857"
restrict_extent: "S"
restrict_start_date: "2021-05-22"
number_of_provisions: "6"
stats_total_paragraphs: "6"
stats_body_paragraphs: "6"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Scottish Parliament (Assistance for Political Parties) Act 2021

#### Assistance for registered political parties in the Parliament

##### 1

In the Scotland Act 1998, for section 97 (assistance for opposition parties) substitute—

> (97)
>   (1) The Parliament may by resolution make provision for payments to be made to registered political parties for the purpose of assisting members of the Parliament who are connected with the parties to perform their Parliamentary duties.
>   (2) A resolution under subsection (1) may—
>     (a) confer functions on the Parliamentary corporation,
>     (b) determine, or make provision for determining, the circumstances in which a member of the Parliament and a registered political party are to be regarded for the purposes of the resolution as connected,
>     (c) make different provision for different purposes.

.

#### Consequential amendment

##### 2

In the Scotland Act 1998, in schedule 7 (procedure for subordinate legislation), in the table in paragraph 1 the entry for section 97 is repealed.

#### Saving provision

##### 3

- (1) The amendment made by section 1 does not affect the validity of the Scottish Parliament (Assistance for Registered Political Parties) Order 1999 (“the Order”) or anything done under the Order.

- (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Order continues to have effect after section 1 comes into force as it had effect immediately before that time.

- (3) The Order is revoked on the day on which the first resolution of the Parliament under section 97 of the Scotland Act 1998 (as substituted by section 1) comes into force.

#### Commencement

##### 4

This Act comes into force at the end of the period of 2 months beginning with the day of Royal Assent.

#### Short title

##### 5

The short title of this Act is the Scottish Parliament (Assistance for Political Parties) Act 2021.
