---
title: "School Education (Ministerial Powers and Independent Schools) (Scotland) Act 2004"
identifier: "asp-2004-12"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-scottish-parliament"
publication_date: "2004-11-12"
last_updated: "2005-12-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-sct"
long_title: "An Act of the Scottish Parliament to confer power on the Scottish Ministers, following inspection of a public or grant-aided school or of an education authority, to direct the school managers or the authority to take specified action; to provide that all non-public schools which provide full-time education for pupils of school age are independent schools; to abolish provisional registration of independent schools; to make amended provision for the registration and regulation of independent schoo"
last_modified_tna: "2015-12-07"
type_code: "asp"
year: "2004"
number: "12"
document_main_type: "ScottishAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "0105900737"
restrict_extent: "S"
restrict_start_date: "2005-12-31"
number_of_provisions: "25"
stats_total_paragraphs: "31"
stats_body_paragraphs: "23"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "8"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# School Education (Ministerial Powers and Independent Schools) (Scotland) Act 2004

## Part 1 — Power of Scottish Ministers to require action by schools and education authorities

#### Power of Scottish Ministers to require action by managers of certain schools

##### 1

After section 66A of the Education (Scotland) Act 1980 (c. 44) (in this Act referred to as the “*1980 Act*”) insert—

> (66B)
>   (1) This section applies where, after an inspection under subsection (1) or (1AA) of section 66 of this Act of—
>     (a) a public school; or
>     (b) a grant-aided school,
>   Her Majesty’s Inspectors identify that a relevant person requires to take action to secure improvement in a matter relating to the school or the school education provided in it.
>   (2) If it appears to Her Majesty’s Inspectors that—
>     (a) having been given sufficient opportunity to secure improvement in a matter identified under subsection (1) above, the relevant person is failing or has failed to take satisfactory action to do so; and
>     (b) having regard to the seriousness of that failure, an enforcement direction is justified,
>   they shall make a reference to the Scottish Ministers.
>   (3) A reference under subsection (2) above shall—
>     (a) be in writing;
>     (b) specify the failure mentioned in subsection (2)(a) above; and
>     (c) include recommendations as to the action which, in the opinion of Her Majesty’s Inspectors, the relevant person requires to take to remedy or prevent the recurrence of that failure.
>   (4) Where Her Majesty’s Inspectors make a reference under subsection (2) above, they shall inform the relevant person of the making of that reference.
>   (5) In this section and in sections 66C and 66D of this Act, “*relevant person*” means—
>     (a) in relation to a public school, the education authority; and
>     (b) in relation to a grant-aided school, the managers of the school.
> (66C)
>   (1) Where, on a reference under section 66B(2) of this Act, it appears to the Scottish Ministers that—
>     (a) the relevant person is failing or has failed to take satisfactory action to secure improvement in the matter mentioned in section 66B(2)(a) of this Act; and
>     (b) an enforcement direction is justified,
>   they may serve a preliminary notice on the relevant person.
>   (2) A preliminary notice is a notice which—
>     (a) informs the relevant person of the apparent failure mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above; and
>     (b) requires the relevant person to submit to the Scottish Ministers, within such time as is specified in the notice, a written response which—
>       (i) states that the person has not so failed and gives reasons supporting that statement; or
>       (ii) states that the person has so failed but gives reasons why an enforcement direction should not be given to that person.
> (66D)
>   (1) Where, following service under section 66C(1) of this Act of a preliminary notice and the expiry of the time specified in it, it still appears to the Scottish Ministers that—
>     (a) the relevant person is failing or has failed to take satisfactory action to secure improvement in the matter mentioned in section 66B(2)(a) of this Act; and
>     (b) having regard to the seriousness of that failure, action under this section is justified,
>   they may give the relevant person an enforcement direction.
>   (2) An enforcement direction is a direction in writing by the Scottish Ministers requiring the relevant person to whom it is given to take, within such time as is specified in the direction, such action as is so specified, being action calculated to remedy or prevent the recurrence of the failure mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above.
>   (3) Where two or more courses of action are specified in an enforcement direction, the Scottish Ministers may specify for each a different time within which it is to be taken.
>   (4) An enforcement direction may place such conditions as the Scottish Ministers may specify in it upon the carrying out of such functions of the relevant person in relation to the school and the school education provided in it as are so specified.
>   (5) The Scottish Ministers may vary an enforcement direction by giving a further such direction.
>   (6) A further such direction need not proceed upon a further preliminary notice under section 66C(1) of this Act.
>   (7) An enforcement direction may be revoked by the Scottish Ministers.
>   (8) Before giving, varying or revoking an enforcement direction, the Scottish Ministers shall consult Her Majesty’s Inspectors.
>   (9) A relevant person to whom an enforcement direction is given shall comply with it.
>   (10) The Scottish Ministers may, instead of or as well as giving an enforcement direction, make such recommendations to the relevant person as they think appropriate.
>   (11) If the Scottish Ministers exercise their power to give, vary or revoke an enforcement direction they shall—
>     (a) prepare a report on their exercise of that power; and
>     (b) lay that report before the Scottish Parliament.

.

#### Power of Scottish Ministers to require action by education authorities

##### 2

After section 10 of the Standards in Scotland’s Schools etc. Act 2000 (asp 6) (in this Act referred to as the “*2000 Act*”) insert—

> (10A)
>   (1) This section applies where, after an inspection under section 9 of this Act, Her Majesty’s Inspectors identify that an education authority require to take action to secure improvement in the way the authority exercise a function in relation to the provision of school education.
>   (2) If it appears to Her Majesty’s Inspectors that—
>     (a) having been given sufficient opportunity to secure improvement in the way they exercise a function identified under subsection (1) above, the education authority are failing or have failed to take satisfactory action to do so; and
>     (b) having regard to the seriousness of that failure, an enforcement direction is justified,
>   they shall make a reference to the Scottish Ministers.
>   (3) A reference under subsection (2) above shall—
>     (a) be in writing;
>     (b) specify the failure mentioned in subsection (2)(a) above; and
>     (c) include recommendations as to the action which, in the opinion of Her Majesty’s Inspectors, the education authority require to take to remedy or prevent the recurrence of that failure.
>   (4) Where Her Majesty’s Inspectors make a reference under subsection (2) above, they shall inform the education authority of the making of that reference.
> (10B)
>   (1) Where, on a reference under section 10A(2) of this Act, it appears to the Scottish Ministers that—
>     (a) the education authority are failing or have failed to take satisfactory action to secure improvement in the way they exercise the function mentioned in section 10A(2)(a) of this Act; and
>     (b) an enforcement direction is justified,
>   they may serve a preliminary notice on the authority.
>   (2) A preliminary notice is a notice which—
>     (a) informs the education authority of the apparent failure mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above; and
>     (b) requires the authority to submit to the Scottish Ministers, within such time as is specified in the notice, a written response which—
>       (i) states that the authority have not so failed and gives reasons supporting that statement; or
>       (ii) states that the authority have so failed but gives reasons why an enforcement direction should not be given to them.
> (10C)
>   (1) Where, following service under section 10B(1) of this Act of a preliminary notice and the expiry of the time specified in it, it still appears to the Scottish Ministers that—
>     (a) the education authority are failing or have failed to take satisfactory action to secure improvement in the way they exercise the function mentioned in section 10A(2)(a) of this Act; and
>     (b) having regard to the seriousness of that failure, action under this section is justified,
>   they may give the authority an enforcement direction.
>   (2) An enforcement direction is a direction in writing by the Scottish Ministers requiring the education authority to which it is given to take, within such time as is specified in the direction, such action as is so specified, being action calculated to remedy or prevent the recurrence of the failure mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above.
>   (3) Where two or more courses of action are specified in an enforcement direction, the Scottish Ministers may specify for each a different time within which it is to be taken.
>   (4) An enforcement direction may place such conditions as the Scottish Ministers may specify in it upon the exercise of such functions of the education authority in relation to the provision of school education as are so specified.
>   (5) The Scottish Ministers may vary an enforcement direction by giving a further such direction.
>   (6) A further such direction need not proceed upon a further preliminary notice under section 10B(1) of this Act.
>   (7) An enforcement direction may be revoked by the Scottish Ministers.
>   (8) Before giving, varying or revoking an enforcement direction, the Scottish Ministers shall consult Her Majesty’s Inspectors.
>   (9) An education authority to which an enforcement direction is given shall comply with it.
>   (10) The Scottish Ministers may, instead of or as well as giving an enforcement direction, make such recommendations to the education authority as they think appropriate.
>   (11) If the Scottish Ministers exercise their power to give, vary or revoke an enforcement direction they shall—
>     (a) prepare a report on their exercise of that power; and
>     (b) lay that report before the Scottish Parliament.

.

## Part 2 — Independent schools

#### Meaning of “independent school”

##### 3

In section 135(1) of the 1980 Act (interpretation), in the definition of “independent school”, the words “five or more” are repealed.

#### Registration of independent schools

##### 4

- (1) For section 98(2) of the 1980 Act (offences in relation to conducting or being a proprietor of a school which is not registered or provisionally registered) substitute—

> (2) The Registrar shall record in the register—
>   (a) in relation to every application under section 98A(1) of this Act for registration of an independent school, such information as the Scottish Ministers may direct;
>   (b) in relation to any conditions imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act on the carrying on of a registered school, such information (including information relating to any variation and revocation of such conditions) as the Scottish Ministers may direct;
>   (c) every order of an Independent Schools Tribunal or the Scottish Ministers imposing any disqualification under this Part of this Act; and
>   (d) in relation to every registered school, such information relating to particulars prescribed under paragraph (a) of subsection (3) below—
>     (i) furnished by virtue of that paragraph; and
>     (ii) notified by virtue of paragraph (b) of that subsection,
>   to the Registrar as the Scottish Ministers may direct.
> (2A) Where an order removing any disqualification under this Part of this Act is made by—
>   (a) the Scottish Ministers; or
>   (b) the sheriff principal,
> the Registrar shall remove the order imposing that disqualification from the register.

.

- (2) For section 98A of the 1980 Act substitute—

> (98A)
>   (1) Any person proposing to carry on an independent school shall apply to the Scottish Ministers for registration of that school.
>   (2) An application for registration shall—
>     (a) be in such form; and
>     (b) include such information,
>   as the Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, prescribe.
>   (3) The Scottish Ministers may, subject to subsection (4) below, grant an application for registration if they are satisfied that—
>     (a) efficient and suitable instruction will be provided at the school, having regard to the ages and sex of the pupils who shall be attending the school;
>     (b) the welfare of such pupils will be adequately safeguarded and promoted;
>     (c) subject to subsection (5)(a) below—
>       (i) the proprietor of the school is a proper person to be the proprietor of an independent school; and
>       (ii) every proposed teacher in the school is a proper person to be a teacher in any school;
>     (d) subject to subsection (5)(b) below, the proposed school premises are suitable for use as a school; and
>     (e) subject to subsection (5)(c) below, the accommodation to be provided at the school premises is adequate and suitable, having regard to the number, ages and sex of the pupils who shall be attending the school.
>   (4) The Scottish Ministers may, on granting an application for registration, impose such conditions on the carrying on of the registered school as they think fit.
>   (5) The Scottish Ministers shall not be satisfied that—
>     (a) the proprietor of an independent school is a proper person to be the proprietor of such a school or, as the case may be, that a proposed teacher in such a school is a proper person to be a teacher in any school if that proprietor or, as the case may be, proposed teacher—
>       (i) is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being such a proprietor or, as the case may be, such a teacher;
>       (ii) is disqualified from working with children; or
>       (iii) is a prescribed person;
>     (b) proposed school premises are suitable for use as a school if any part of such premises is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being so used; and
>     (c) accommodation to be provided at school premises is adequate and suitable if any such accommodation is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being used as such or from being used as such for pupils of—
>       (i) such number; or
>       (ii) such age or sex,
>     for which it is proposed it be used.
>   (6) In this Part of this Act—
>   - “*disqualified from working with children*” shall be construed in accordance with section 17 of the Protection of Children (Scotland) Act 2003 (asp 5);
>   - “*prescribed person*” means—
>     1. in relation to a proprietor of an independent school, a person falling within such class of persons as the Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, prescribe; and
>     2. in relation to a teacher or proposed teacher in such a school, a person falling within such class of persons as may be so prescribed; and
>   - “*proposed teacher*” means a person that the proprietor of an independent school proposes will, on the registration of that school, be a teacher in it.
> (98B)
>   (1) This section applies where the Scottish Ministers refuse an application for registration on the ground that they are not satisfied that—
>     (a) the proposed school premises are suitable for use as a school;
>     (b) accommodation to be provided at the proposed school premises is adequate and suitable, having regard to the number, ages and sex of the pupils who shall be attending the school;
>     (c) the proprietor of the independent school is a proper person to be the proprietor of such a school; or
>     (d) a proposed teacher in the school is a proper person to be a teacher in any school.
>   (2) Where the Scottish Ministers refuse an application for registration on the ground mentioned in subsection (1)(a) above they may make an order disqualifying the proposed school premises or any part of them from being used as a school.
>   (3) Where the Scottish Ministers refuse an application for registration on the ground mentioned in subsection (1)(b) above they may make an order disqualifying the accommodation from being used as such or from being used as such for pupils—
>     (a) exceeding such number; or
>     (b) of such age or sex,
>   as they may specify.
>   (4) Where the Scottish Ministers refuse an application for registration on the ground mentioned in subsection (1)(c) above they may make an order disqualifying the proprietor from being the proprietor of an independent school.
>   (5) Where the Scottish Ministers refuse an application for registration on the ground mentioned in subsection (1)(d) above they may make an order disqualifying the proposed teacher from being a teacher in any school.
> (98C)
>   (1) The Scottish Ministers shall give notice to the persons mentioned in subsection (2) below of their decision on an application for registration of an independent school.
>   (2) The persons referred to in subsection (1) above are—
>     (a) the proprietor;
>     (b) where the application for registration is refused on the ground that the Scottish Ministers are not satisfied that a proposed teacher in the school is a proper person to be a teacher in any school, that proposed teacher;
>     (c) the Registrar; and
>     (d) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit.
>   (3) Where, under section 98A(3) of this Act, the Scottish Ministers grant an application for registration of an independent school, they shall direct the Registrar to register that school.
>   (4) Where an order is made under section 98B(2), (3) or (4) of this Act, the Scottish Ministers shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after making the order, give notice to—
>     (a) the proprietor;
>     (b) the Registrar; and
>     (c) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
>   of the order.
>   (5) Where an order is made under section 98B(5) of this Act, the Scottish Ministers shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after making the order, give notice to—
>     (a) the proposed teacher to whom the order relates;
>     (b) the Registrar; and
>     (c) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
>   of the order.
>   (6) The proprietor of an independent school may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that proprietor is given notice under subsection (1) above, appeal to the sheriff principal—
>     (a) where the application for registration of the school is, under subsection (3) of section 98A of this Act, refused, against that refusal; or
>     (b) where such application is, under that subsection, granted and conditions are, under subsection (4) of that section, imposed on the carrying on of the school, against the imposition of any such condition.
>   (7) Where an order is made under section 98B(2), (3) or (4) of this Act, the proprietor may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that proprietor is given notice under subsection (4)(a) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against the order.
>   (8) Where an order is made under section 98B(5) of this Act, the proposed teacher may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that proposed teacher is given notice under subsection (5)(a) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against the order.
> (98D)
>   (1) Where the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that a registered school is no longer being carried on as such, they may make an order directing the Registrar to remove the school from the register.
>   (2) Where an order is made under subsection (1) above, the Scottish Ministers shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after so doing, give notice to—
>     (a) the proprietor;
>     (b) the Registrar; and
>     (c) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
>   of the order.
>   (3) The Registrar may, on the application of the proprietor of a registered school, remove that school from the register.
>   (4) Where, under subsection (3) above, the Registrar removes a school from the register, the Registrar shall give notice to—
>     (a) the proprietor; and
>     (b) any other person or body the Registrar thinks fit,
>   of that fact.

.

#### Regulation of registered schools

##### 5

- (1) After section 98D of the 1980 Act (as inserted by section 4(2) of this Act) insert—

> (98E)
>   (1) The Scottish Ministers may, if they are satisfied that it is necessary to prevent a registered school from becoming objectionable upon any of the grounds mentioned in section 99(1A) of this Act—
>     (a) impose any condition on the carrying on of that registered school; or
>     (b) vary or revoke any such condition imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act,
>   as they think fit.
>   (2) The Scottish Ministers may, on the application of the proprietor of a registered school, vary or revoke any condition imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act on the carrying on of that school.
>   (3) An application such as is mentioned in subsection (2) above shall—
>     (a) be in writing; and
>     (b) specify the variation or revocation sought together with the reasons for seeking it.
>   (4) Where, under this section, the Scottish Ministers impose, vary, revoke or refuse to vary or revoke a condition on the carrying on of a registered school, they shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after so doing, give notice to—
>     (a) the proprietor;
>     (b) the Registrar; and
>     (c) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
>   of that imposition, variation, revocation or, as the case may be, refusal.
>   (5) The proprietor of a registered school may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that proprietor is given notice under subsection (4)(a) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against the imposition, variation or, as the case may be, refusal to vary or revoke.

.

- (2) In section 99 of the 1980 Act (notice of complaint)—

- (a) in subsection (1)—

- (i) for the words “following grounds” substitute

> grounds mentioned in subsection (1A) below, the Scottish Ministers shall, subject to subsection (1B) below, serve on the proprietor of the school a notice of complaint.
> (1A) The grounds referred to in subsection (1) above are

; and

- (ii) for the words from the beginning of paragraph (d) to the end substitute—

> (d) that a condition imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act on the carrying on of the school is not being or has not been complied with;
> (e) that any part of the school premises is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being used as a school;
> (f) that any accommodation provided at the school premises is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being used as such or is being used as such for pupils of—
>   (i) such number; or
>   (ii) such age or sex,
> from which use it is so disqualified;
> (g) that the proprietor of the school is—
>   (i) by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being the proprietor of an independent school;
>   (ii) disqualified from working with children;
>   (iii) a prescribed person; or
>   (iv) otherwise not a proper person to be the proprietor of an independent school;
> (h) that a teacher in the school is—
>   (i) by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being a teacher in any school;
>   (ii) disqualified from working with children;
>   (iii) a prescribed person; or
>   (iv) otherwise not a proper person to be a teacher in any school; or
> (j) that the proprietor of the school has not, in relation to particulars prescribed under paragraph (a) of section 98(3) of this Act—
>   (i) furnished information required by virtue of that paragraph; or
>   (ii) notified, by virtue of paragraph (b) of that subsection, a change in such particulars,
> to the Registrar.
> (1B) The Scottish Ministers need not serve a notice of complaint under subsection (1) above where they are satisfied that they urgently require to make an order under section 100(2) of this Act.
> (1C) A notice of complaint is a notice—
>   (a) stating the ground of the complaint together with the full particulars of the matter complained of; and
>   (b) specifying—
>     (i) the measures which, in the opinion of the Scottish Ministers, are necessary to remedy the matter complained of; and
>     (ii) the period, beginning with the day on which the notice is served, before the expiry of which such measures require to be taken.

; and

- (b) for subsection (3) substitute—

> (3) The proprietor of a registered school may, before the expiry of the period mentioned in subsection (4) below, appeal to the sheriff principal against a notice of complaint.
> (4) The period referred to in subsection (3) above is—
>   (a) the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the notice of complaint is served; or
>   (b) the period specified under subsection (1C)(b)(ii) above,
> whichever is the shorter.

.

- (3) In section 100 of the 1980 Act (determination of complaints), for subsections (1) to (3) substitute—

> (1) This section applies—
>   (a) in a case where—
>     (i) a notice of complaint has been served under section 99(1) of this Act;
>     (ii) no appeal under section 99(3) of this Act has been made or such an appeal has been made and refused;
>     (iii) the period specified in the notice has expired; and
>     (iv) the Scottish Ministers are not satisfied that the proprietor of the school on whom the notice is served has taken satisfactory action to remedy the matter complained of;
>   (b) in a case where—
>     (i) such a notice has been served;
>     (ii) such an appeal has been made but not determined; and
>     (iii) pending such determination, the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that there is a serious risk of harm to a pupil attending the school; or
>   (c) where, by virtue of section 99(1B) of this Act, no such notice has been served.
> (2) The Scottish Ministers may—
>   (a) make an order directing the Registrar to remove the school from the register;
>   (b) if satisfied that the school premises are or any part of them is unsuitable for use as a school, make an order disqualifying those premises or any part of them from being so used;
>   (c) if satisfied that any accommodation provided at the school premises is inadequate or unsuitable, having regard to the number, ages and sex of the pupils attending the school, make an order disqualifying that accommodation from being used as such or from being used as such for pupils—
>     (i) exceeding such number; or
>     (ii) of such age or sex,
>   as the Scottish Ministers may specify;
>   (d) make an order—
>     (i) imposing such conditions on the carrying on of the school; or
>     (ii) varying any such conditions imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act,
>   as the Scottish Ministers think fit; or
>   (e) if satisfied that—
>     (i) the proprietor is not a proper person to be the proprietor of an independent school; or
>     (ii) a teacher in the school is not a proper person to be a teacher in any school,
>   make an order disqualifying that proprietor from being the proprietor of an independent school or, as the case may be, that teacher from being a teacher in any school.
> (3) Where the Scottish Ministers make an order under subsection (2) above, they shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after so doing, give notice to—
>   (a) the proprietor;
>   (b) where, under paragraph (e) of that subsection, an order is made disqualifying a teacher, that teacher;
>   (c) the Registrar; and
>   (d) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
> of the order.
> (3A) Subject to subsection (3C) below, the proprietor of an independent school may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that proprietor is given notice under subsection (3)(a) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against an order under subsection (2) above.
> (3B) A teacher disqualified by an order under subsection (2)(e) above may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which that teacher is given notice under subsection (3)(b) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against the order.
> (3C) The proprietor of an independent school may not appeal against an order under subsection (2)(e) above disqualifying a teacher from being a teacher in any school.

.

- (4) In section 101 of the 1980 Act (enforcement of orders)—

- (a) for subsection (1) substitute—

> (1) Any person who carries on an independent school which is not registered shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.

; and

- (b) after subsection (3) insert—

> (3A) If any person who is, by virtue of this Part of this Act, disqualified from being a teacher in any school—
>   (a) endeavours to obtain a position as a teacher;
>   (b) accepts such a position; or
>   (c) teaches,
> in any school, that person shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.

.

#### Appeals

##### 6

- (1) In section 102 of the 1980 Act (removal of disqualifications), after subsection (1) insert—

> (1A) The Scottish Ministers shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after making a decision under subsection (1) above, give notice to—
>   (a) the applicant;
>   (b) the Registrar; and
>   (c) any other person or body the Scottish Ministers think fit,
> of that decision.

.

- (2) For section 103 of the 1980 Act substitute—

> (103)
>   (1) An appeal—
>     (a) made under—
>       (i) section 98C(6) of this Act;
>       (ii) section 98C(7) against an order made under section 98B(2) or (3) of this Act;
>       (iii) section 98E(5) of this Act;
>       (iv) section 99(3) of this Act;
>       (v) section 100(3A) against an order made under section 100(2)(a) to (d) of this Act; or
>       (vi) section 102(2) of this Act against a refusal to remove a disqualification relating to school premises or accommodation provided at such premises,
>     shall be to the sheriff principal of the sheriffdom in which the school to which the appeal relates is situated; and
>     (b) made under—
>       (i) section 98C(7) against an order made under section 98B(4) of this Act;
>       (ii) section 98C(8) of this Act;
>       (iii) section 100(3A) against an order made under section 100(2)(e) of this Act disqualifying a proprietor;
>       (iv) section 100(3B) of this Act; or
>       (v) section 102(2) of this Act against a refusal to remove a disqualification relating to a proprietor or a teacher,
>     shall be to the sheriff principal of the sheriffdom in which the appellant resides or, if the appellant resides outwith Scotland, the sheriff principal of Lothian and Borders at Edinburgh.
>   (2) Where the sheriff principal allows an appeal under section 98C(6)(a) of this Act, the sheriff principal—
>     (a) shall make an order directing the Registrar to register the school; and
>     (b) may make an order imposing such conditions on the carrying on of the school as the sheriff principal thinks fit.
>   (3) On an appeal under section 98C(6)(b) or 98E(5) of this Act, the sheriff principal may, whether or not the sheriff principal allows or refuses the appeal, make an order—
>     (a) imposing any condition on the carrying on of the school; or
>     (b) varying or revoking any such condition imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act,
>   as the sheriff principal thinks fit.
>   (4) On an appeal under section 99(3) of this Act—
>     (a) where the sheriff principal allows the appeal, the sheriff principal shall make an order annulling the notice of complaint; and
>     (b) where the Scottish Ministers have, pending the determination of the appeal, made an order under section 100(2) of this Act, the sheriff principal may make an order—
>       (i) directing the Registrar to register the school;
>       (ii) imposing such conditions on the carrying on of the school as the sheriff principal thinks fit;
>       (iii) varying or revoking such conditions imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act as the sheriff principal thinks fit; or
>       (iv) removing any disqualification imposed under section 100(2)(b), (c) or (e) of this Act.
>   (5) Where, on an appeal under section 100(3A) of this Act—
>     (a) the sheriff principal allows the appeal, the sheriff principal may make an order—
>       (i) directing the Registrar to register the school;
>       (ii) imposing such conditions on the carrying on of the school as the sheriff principal thinks fit;
>       (iii) varying or revoking such conditions imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act as the sheriff principal thinks fit; or
>       (iv) removing any disqualification imposed under section 100(2)(b), (c) or (e) of this Act; or
>     (b) the sheriff principal refuses the appeal, the sheriff principal may make any order—
>       (i) imposing such conditions on the carrying on of the school as the sheriff principal thinks fit; or
>       (ii) varying or revoking such conditions imposed by virtue of this Part of this Act as the sheriff principal thinks fit.
>   (6) Where the sheriff principal allows an appeal under section 98C(7) or (8), 100(3B) or 102(2) of this Act, the sheriff principal shall make an order removing the disqualification.
>   (7) A person to whom an order made by the sheriff principal under subsections (2) to (6) above relates may, before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the order is made, appeal on point of law only to the Court of Session.

.

#### Supplementary

##### 7

After section 103 of the 1980 Act insert—

> (103A)
>   (1) This section applies where the proprietor of an independent school is not an individual.
>   (2) Any power in this Part of this Act, by virtue of which the Scottish Ministers may disqualify the proprietor of an independent school from being the proprietor of such a school, includes power to so disqualify a relevant person.
>   (3) For the purposes of any provision in this Part of this Act relating to the disqualification of the proprietor of an independent school from being the proprietor of such a school, the proprietor shall be so disqualified if a relevant person is so disqualified.
>   (4) Any reference in this Part of this Act to the disqualification of the proprietor of an independent school from working with children shall be construed as a reference to any relevant person’s being so disqualified.
>   (5) Any reference in this Part of this Act to the proprietor of an independent school’s being (or not being) a proper person to be the proprietor of such a school shall be construed as including a reference to any relevant person’s being (or not being) such a proper person.
>   (6) In this section, “*relevant person*”, in relation to the proprietor of an independent school, means—
>     (a) in the case of such a proprietor which is a body corporate, any person who—
>       (i) is a director, manager or secretary of the body corporate; or
>       (ii) purports to act in any such capacity;
>     (b) in the case of such a proprietor which is a Scottish partnership, any person who—
>       (i) is a partner; or
>       (ii) purports to act in that capacity; and
>     (c) in the case of such a proprietor which is an unincorporated association other than a Scottish partnership, any person who—
>       (i) is concerned in the management or control of the association; or
>       (ii) purports to act in the capacity of a person so concerned.
> (103B)
>   (1) Where, under section 98A(3) of this Act, the Scottish Ministers grant an application for registration of an independent school, the registration of that school shall, unless the Scottish Ministers otherwise direct, have effect from the beginning of the day on which the proprietor is, under section 98C(1) of this Act, given notice of the grant of the application.
>   (2) Where, under section 103(2)(a), (4)(b)(i) or (5)(a)(i) of this Act, the sheriff principal makes an order directing the Registrar to register an independent school, the registration of that school shall, unless the sheriff principal otherwise directs, have effect from the beginning of the day on which such an order is made.
>   (3) Where, under section 98D(3) of this Act, the Registrar removes a registered school from the register, that removal shall have effect from the beginning of the day following the day on which notice under section 98D(4) of this Act is given.
>   (4) Where, under section 98D(1) or 100(2)(a) of this Act, the Scottish Ministers make an order directing the Registrar to remove an independent school from the register that removal shall, unless the Scottish Ministers otherwise direct, have effect from the beginning of the day following the day on which the order is made.

.

## Part 3 — General

#### Minor and consequential amendments and repeals

##### 8

- (1) Schedule 1 to this Act, which contains minor amendments and amendments consequential on the provisions of this Act, has effect.

- (2) The enactments mentioned in schedule 2 to this Act are repealed to the extent mentioned in the second column of that schedule.

#### Short title and commencement

##### 9

- (1) This Act may be cited as the School Education (Ministerial Powers and Independent Schools) (Scotland) Act 2004.

- (2) This Act (except this section) comes into force on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by order made by statutory instrument appoint; and different days may be so appointed for different provisions and for different purposes.

- (3) An order under subsection (2) above may include such transitional provisions and savings as the Scottish Ministers think fit.

## SCHEDULE 1

#### Education (Scotland) Act 1980 (c. 44)

##### 1

- (1) The 1980 Act is amended as follows.

- (2) In section 98(3)(a) (power to prescribe particulars, information as to which shall be furnished to the Registrar by the proprietors of independent schools), for the word “independent” substitute “ registered ”.

- (3) In section 99(2) (service of copy notice of complaint on teacher)—

- (a) for the words from “person”, where it first occurs, to “school”, where it second occurs, substitute

> teacher in the school is—
> (a) disqualified as mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) of subsection (1A)(h) above;
> (b) a prescribed person; or
> (c) otherwise not a proper person to be a teacher in any school,

; and

- (b) for the word “person”, where it third occurs, substitute “ teacher ”.

- (4) In section 100(4) (disqualification from being proprietor of independent school to be disqualification from being teacher and vice versa), for the words “by an Independent Schools Tribunal or by the Secretary of State” substitute “ under this Part of this Act ”.

- (5) In section 101 (enforcement of orders)—

- (a) in subsection (2), for the words “any premises for purposes for which they are” substitute—

> (a) school premises which are or any part of such premises which is; or
> (b) any accommodation provided at such premises which is,

; and

- (b) in subsection (4), for the words from “disqualified”, where it first occurs, to “1944” substitute “ subject to or deemed to be subject to a direction given under section 142 of the Education Act 2002 (c. 32) shall be deemed to be disqualified ”.

- (6) In section 102(2) (appeal against refusal to remove disqualification), for the words from “within” to the end substitute “ before the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the applicant is given notice under subsection (1A)(a) above, appeal to the sheriff principal against that refusal. ”.

- (7) In section 133 (regulations)—

- (a) in subsection (2), for the words “and (2B)” substitute “ to (2C) ”; and

- (b) after subsection (2B) insert—

> (2C) Subsection (2) above shall not apply to any regulations under section 98A(6) of this Act defining “prescribed person”; and no such regulations shall be made unless—
>   (a) the Scottish Ministers have consulted such persons as they think fit on a draft of the statutory instrument containing the regulations; and
>   (b) such a draft has been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the Scottish Parliament.

.

- (8) In section 135(1) (interpretation)—

- (a) after the definition of “dental treatment” insert—

> “*disqualified from working with children*” has the meaning given by section 98A(6) of this Act;

;

- (b) after the definition of “enactment” insert—

> “*enforcement direction*” means a direction under section 66D(1) of this Act;

;

- (c) after the definition of “placing request” insert—

> “*preliminary notice*” means a notice under section 66C(1) of this Act;

; and

- (d) in the definition of “registered school”, for the words “the registration of which” substitute “ which is registered ”.

#### Standards in Scotland’s Schools etc. Act 2000 (asp 6)

##### 2

In section 58(1) of the 2000 Act (interpretation)—

- (a) after the definition of “annual statement of educational improvement objectives” insert—

> “*enforcement direction*” means a direction under section 10C(1) of this Act;

; and

- (b) after the definition of “national priorities in education” insert—

> “*preliminary notice*” means a notice under section 10B(1) of this Act;

.

## SCHEDULE 2

#### Power of Scottish Ministers to require action by education authorities

#### Registration of independent schools

#### Supplementary

#### Short title and commencement

## Editorial notes

[^key-478c587a9865493dc196440e39d9f563]: [S. 1](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/1) in force at 31.5.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10/article/3/a)

[^key-519f2a1594730292c9267866e3484fa2]: [S. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/2) in force at 31.5.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10), [art. 3(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10/article/3/a)

[^key-3339b94ac11d3113f524134b201102a1]: [S. 8(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/8/1) in force at 31.5.2005 for specified purposes by [S.S.I. 2005/10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10), [art. 3(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10/article/3/b)

[^key-c53d98b9d57536c4524e4586b2b09e7b]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(8)(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/1/8/b)[(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/1/8/c) in force at 31.5.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10), [art. 3(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10/article/3/c)

[^key-8e301753e19ba47281395d7563acde70]: [Sch. 1 para. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/2) in force at 31.5.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/10](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10), [art. 3(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/10/article/3/c)

[^key-87e1c839b87252312eebe12e75d5cf20]: [S. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/3) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/a) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-c1ba110ea37d74b392fd2cbf00be4943]: [S. 4](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/4) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/a) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-d067dd72ed3bf87fffc5874b7e3fa7cf]: [S. 5](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/5) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/a) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-3640327c4a742da752433bb39985e82a]: [S. 6](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/6) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/a) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-2fc363a40e7fdc1924406508b759421e]: [S. 7](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/7) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/a) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-c2c9687d51f7bf08c8be018652f22034]: [S. 8(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/8/1) in force at 31.12.2005 in so far as not already in force by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/b) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-baf716b3f7fa8a9b1001d5d17e24e4a8]: [S. 8(2)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/section/8/2) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(b)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/b) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-6b528c43bf571148aad2532343a6a996]: [Sch. 1 para. 1(1)-(7)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/1/1) [(8)(a)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/1/8/a) [(8)(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/1/paragraph/1/8/d) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(c)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/c) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))

[^key-7998532f5c9b47f904fe76b10a054ef9]: [Sch. 2](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2004/12/schedule/2) in force at 31.12.2005 by [S.S.I. 2005/570](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570), [art. 2(d)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/2/d) (with [art. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2005/570/article/3))
