---
title: "Children (Equal Protection from Assault) (Scotland) Act 2019"
identifier: "asp-2019-16"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-scottish-parliament"
publication_date: "2019-11-07"
last_updated: "2019-11-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2019/16"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-sct"
long_title: "An Act of the Scottish Parliament to abolish the defence of reasonable chastisement; and for connected purposes."
last_modified_tna: "2019-11-28"
type_code: "asp"
year: "2019"
number: "16"
document_main_type: "ScottishAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105903581"
restrict_extent: "S"
restrict_start_date: "2019-11-08"
number_of_provisions: "5"
stats_total_paragraphs: "5"
stats_body_paragraphs: "5"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
correction_slips: "Correction Slip 1 | 2019-11-13 | http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2019/16/pdfs/aspcs_20190016_en_001.pdf"
---
# Children (Equal Protection from Assault) (Scotland) Act 2019

#### Abolition of defence of reasonable chastisement

##### 1

- (1) The rule of law, that the physical punishment of a child in the exercise of a parental right or a right derived from having charge or care of the child is justifiable and is therefore not an assault, ceases to have effect.

- (2) Section 51 (physical punishment of children) of the Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003 is repealed.

#### Duty of Scottish Ministers to raise awareness

##### 2

The Scottish Ministers must take such steps as they consider appropriate to promote public awareness and understanding about the effect of section 1.

#### Transitional and saving provision

##### 3

- (1) Section 1 does not apply to anything done before the day on which that section comes into force.

- (2) Accordingly—

- (a) the rule of law mentioned in section 1(1), and

- (b) section 51 of the Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2003,

continue to have effect for the purposes of any proceedings ongoing on, or brought on or after, the day section 1 comes into force which relate to an alleged assault on a child committed before that day.

- (3) The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make such further transitional, transitory or saving provision as they consider necessary or expedient in connection with the coming into force of section 1.

- (4) Regulations under subsection (3) are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

##### 4

- (1) This section and sections 2, 3(3) and (4) and 5 come into force on the day after Royal Assent.

- (2) The other provisions of this Act come into force on the expiry of the period of 12 months beginning with the day of Royal Assent.

#### Short title

##### 5

The short title of this Act is the Children (Equal Protection from Assault) (Scotland) Act 2019.
