---
title: "Hutchesons' Hospital Transfer and Dissolution (Scotland) Act 2019"
identifier: "asp-2019-5"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-scottish-parliament"
publication_date: "2019-05-31"
last_updated: "2019-05-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2019/5"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-sct"
long_title: "An Act of the Scottish Parliament to transfer the property, rights, interests and liabilities of The Royal Incorporation of Hutchesons' Hospital in the City of Glasgow to a successor Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation; to dissolve the Incorporation; and to repeal the Hutchesons' Hospital Act 1872."
last_modified_tna: "2019-08-06"
type_code: "asp"
year: "2019"
number: "5"
document_main_type: "ScottishAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105903468"
restrict_extent: "S"
restrict_start_date: "2019-06-28"
number_of_provisions: "5"
stats_total_paragraphs: "5"
stats_body_paragraphs: "5"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Hutchesons' Hospital Transfer and Dissolution (Scotland) Act 2019

#### Transfer of property, rights, interests and liabilities

##### 1

- (1) All property, rights, interests and liabilities of the transferor are transferred to and vested in the transferee.

- (2) Subsection (1) has effect so as to transfer any property, rights, interests and liabilities notwithstanding any provision (of whatever nature) that would otherwise prevent or restrict that transfer.

- (3) In every existing contract in which the transferor is referred to, references to the transferor are to be construed as references to the transferee.

- (4) Any property, right, interest or liability in respect of which (but for this Act)—

- (a) delivery or possession, or

- (b) intimation of its assignation,

would be required in order to complete title to it, transfers to and vests in the transferee by virtue of this Act as if at the date on which the transfer of the property, right, interest or liability by this Act takes effect the transferee had taken delivery or possession of the property, right, interest or liability in question or, as the case may be, had made intimation of its assignation.

- (5) This Act is deemed to be, and may be used as, a general disposition, conveyance or, as the case may be, assignation of such property, rights, interests and liabilities in favour of the transferee.

- (6) Any legal proceedings, applications to any authority or other proceedings for the resolution of a dispute by or against the transferor which are pending or current immediately before this Act comes into force may be continued by or against the transferee.

#### Dissolution and repeal

##### 2

- (1) The transferor is dissolved.

- (2) The Hutchesons’ Hospital Act 1872 is repealed.

#### Interpretation

##### 3

In this Act—

- “transferee” means The Royal Incorporation of Hutchesons’ Hospital in the City of Glasgow SCIO, being a Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation registered with the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator on 29 December 2017 with the charity number SC048030,

- “transferor” means The Royal Incorporation of Hutchesons’ Hospital in the City of Glasgow, a registered Scottish Charity with the charity number SC001470, incorporated under the Hutchesons’ Hospital Act 1872.

#### Commencement

##### 4

This Act comes into force at the end of the period of four weeks beginning with the date of Royal Assent.

#### Short title

##### 5

The short title of this Act is the Hutchesons’ Hospital Transfer and Dissolution (Scotland) Act 2019.
