---
title: "Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 (repealed)"
identifier: "nia-2011-29"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-northern-ireland-assembly"
publication_date: "2011-07-25"
last_updated: "2011-07-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2011/29"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-nir"
long_title: "An Act to authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of certain sums for the service of the year ending 31st March 2012; to appropriate those sums for specified purposes; to authorise the Department of Finance and Personnel to borrow on the credit of the appropriated sums; to authorise the use for the public service of certain resources (including accruing resources) for the year ending 31st March 2012; to authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of an excess cash sum for the servi"
last_modified_tna: "2016-10-11"
type_code: "nia"
year: "2011"
number: "29"
document_main_type: "NorthernIrelandAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
restrict_extent: "N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2014-07-16"
number_of_provisions: "9"
stats_total_paragraphs: "14"
stats_body_paragraphs: "9"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "5"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 (repealed)

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31st March 2012 and appropriation of that sum

##### 1

- (1) The Department of Finance and Personnel may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service of the year ending 31st March 2012 the sum of £8,141,695,000.

- (2) That sum is appropriated for the purposes specified in Schedule 1.

#### Power of the Department of Finance and Personnel to borrow

##### 2

- (1) Subject to subsection (2), the Department of Finance and Personnel may borrow on the credit of the sum specified in section 1 any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole £4,070,847,000.

- (2) Any money so borrowed shall be repaid, with any interest due thereon, out of the Consolidated Fund not later than 31st March 2012.

#### Use of resources (other than accruing resources) in year ending 31st March 2012

##### 3

- (1) For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section authorises the use of resources in the year ending 31st March 2012.

- (2) The use of resources by—

- (a) the Northern Ireland departments mentioned in Schedule 2;

- (b) the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

- (c) the Assembly Ombudsman for Northern Ireland and the Northern Ireland Commissioner for Complaints;

- (d) the Food Standards Agency;

- (e) the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

- (f) the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation; and

- (g) the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland,

in that year is authorised to the amount of £8,656,468,000.

- (3) In that year, resources may be used by a Northern Ireland department or a body or person mentioned in subsection (2) for the purposes specified in relation to that department, body or person in column 1 of Schedule 2 up to the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that Schedule.

#### Limit on use of accruing resources in year ending 31st March 2012

##### 4

- (1) For the purposes of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act, this section sets the relevant limits on the accruing resources that may be directed to be used for certain purposes in the year ending 31st March 2012 in addition to resources authorised by this Act or any other statutory provision to be used for those purposes in that year.

- (2) In that year accruing resources not exceeding the amount specified in column 3 of Schedule 2 may be directed to be used for the purposes specified in the corresponding entries in column 1 of that Schedule.

#### Cash excess for the year ending 31st March 2010

##### 5

- (1) The Department of Finance and Personnel may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to the service of the year ending 31st March 2010 the sum of £23,278,781.13.

- (2) That sum is appropriated for the purposes specified in Schedule 3.

#### Resource excesses for the year ending 31st March 2010

##### 6

- (1) For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section authorises the use of resources by the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Department of Education to the amount of £17,836,994.70 in the year ending 31st March 2010.

- (2) In that year, resources may be used by a department mentioned in subsection (1) for the purposes specified in relation to that department in column 1 of Schedule 4 up to the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that Schedule.

- (3) Those resources are additional to any resources or accruing resources authorised by or under any other statutory provision to be used for those purposes in that year.

#### Repeal of spent provisions

##### 7

The statutory provisions mentioned in Schedule 5 are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the second column of that Schedule.

#### Interpretation

##### 8

In this Act—

- “the 2001 Act” means the Government Resources and Accounts Act (Northern Ireland) 2001;

- “resources” does not include accruing resources within the meaning of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act;

- “statutory provision” has the same meaning as in section 1(f) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954.

#### Short title

##### 9

This Act may be cited as the Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011.

## SCHEDULE 1

## SCHEDULE 2

## SCHEDULE 3

## SCHEDULE 4

## SCHEDULE 5

#### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31st March 2012 and appropriation of that sum

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## Editorial notes

[^key-4275f1e2db23c3108d8fd2124aa83952]: [Act](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2011/29) repealed (16.7.2014) by [Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (c. 10)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2014/10), [Sch. 3](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2014/10/schedule/3)
