---
title: "Student Loans (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011"
identifier: "nia-2011-2"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-northern-ireland-assembly"
publication_date: "2011-01-25"
last_updated: "2011-01-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2011/2"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-nir"
long_title: "An Act to amend the law relating to student loans."
last_modified_tna: "2011-05-26"
type_code: "nia"
year: "2011"
number: "2"
document_main_type: "NorthernIrelandAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105950943"
restrict_extent: "N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2011-01-25"
number_of_provisions: "4"
stats_total_paragraphs: "4"
stats_body_paragraphs: "4"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Student Loans (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011

#### Student loans: effect of voluntary arrangement

##### 1

- (1) In Article 3(3) of the [Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 (NI 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1998/1760) (new arrangements for giving financial support to students) after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

> (g) with respect to sums which a borrower receives, or is entitled to receive, under such a loan before or after a voluntary arrangement under Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (individual voluntary arrangements) takes effect in respect of the borrower;
> (h) excluding or modifying the application of Chapter 2 of Part 8 of that Order in relation to liability to make repayments in respect of such a loan (whether the repayments relate to sums which the borrower receives, or is entitled to receive, before or after a voluntary arrangement takes effect in respect of the borrower).

.

- (2) Subsections (3) and (4) have effect in relation to the [Education (Student Loans) (Northern Ireland) Order 1990 (NI 11)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1990/1506) to the extent that that Order continues in operation by virtue of any savings made, in connection with its repeal by the [Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 (NI 14)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisi/1998/1760), by an order under Article 1(3) of that Order.

- (3) In Schedule 2 (loans for students), in paragraph 5(1) for “or 283” substitute “, 283 or 283A”.

- (4) In Schedule 2, after paragraph 5 insert—

> (6)
>   (1) This paragraph applies to a sum by way of public sector student loan or subsidised private sector student loan that a person (“the debtor”) receives or is entitled to receive before or after a voluntary arrangement under Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 takes effect in respect of the debtor.
>   (2) The sum is to be ignored for the purposes of the voluntary arrangement.
> (7)
>   (1) Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (individual voluntary arrangements) has effect in relation to a student loan debt with the following modifications.
>   (2) A student loan debt is to be treated as not included among the debtor’s debts.
>   (3) A person to whom a student loan debt is owed is to be treated as not being one of the debtor’s creditors.
>   (4) A “student loan debt” is a debt or liability to which a debtor is or may become subject in respect of a public sector student loan or subsidised private sector student loan.

.

#### Short title

##### 2

This Act may be cited as the Student Loans (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011.
