---
title: "Animal Welfare (Service Animals) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022"
identifier: "nia-2022-9"
country: "uk"
rank: "act-of-northern-ireland-assembly"
publication_date: "2022-03-30"
last_updated: "2022-03-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/9"
department: "Statute Law Database"
jurisdiction: "uk-nir"
long_title: "Amend the Welfare of Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 in relation to service animals."
last_modified_tna: "2022-08-12"
type_code: "nia"
year: "2022"
number: "9"
document_main_type: "NorthernIrelandAct"
document_category: "primary"
document_status: "revised"
language: "en"
publisher: "Statute Law Database"
isbn: "9780105962588"
restrict_extent: "N.I."
restrict_start_date: "2022-03-31"
number_of_provisions: "3"
stats_total_paragraphs: "3"
stats_body_paragraphs: "3"
stats_schedule_paragraphs: "0"
stats_attachment_paragraphs: "0"
stats_total_images: "0"
---
# Animal Welfare (Service Animals) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

#### Amendment of the 2011 Act

##### 1

In the Welfare of Animals Act (Northern Ireland) 2011, after section 51 insert—

> (51A)
>   (1) Subsections (2) and (3) apply when it is being determined in connection with section 4(1) whether suffering is unnecessary in a case where the suffering was caused by conduct for the purpose mentioned in section 4(3)(c)(ii).
>   (2) The fact that the conduct was for the purpose mentioned in section 4(3)(c)(ii) is to be disregarded if—
>     (a) the animal was—
>       (i) under the control of a relevant officer at the time of the conduct, and
>       (ii) being used by the officer at the time of the conduct, in the course of the officer’s duties, in a way that was reasonable in all the circumstances, and
>     (b) the conduct was that of someone other than the officer.
>   (3) A relevant officer is—
>     (a) a constable (but see subsection (4)),
>     (b) a person (other than a constable)—
>       (i) employed for the purposes of the police, or
>       (ii) engaged to provide services for the purposes of the police, or
>     (c) a prisoner custody officer as defined in Chapter 3 of Part 8 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994.
>   (4) A reference in this section to a constable excludes a member of the Naval, Military or Royal Air Force Police.
>   (5) The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs may by regulations amend this section so as to alter the meaning of a relevant officer in this section.
>   (6) Only a person in the public service of the Crown may be included within the meaning of a relevant officer in this section by virtue of regulations under this section.

.

#### Commencement and short title

##### 2

- (1) This Act comes into operation on the day after receiving Royal Assent.

- (2) This Act may be cited as the Animal Welfare (Service Animals) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

#### Amendment of the 2011 Act

#### Commencement and short title

## Editorial notes

[^key-e46f63027b81efef7047c82ebf22b406]: S. 1 in operation at 31.3.2022, see [s. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/9/section/2/1)

[^key-b81b756937b7b53b9772329099b74808]: S. 2 in operation at 31.3.2022, see [s. 2(1)](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/9/section/2/1)
